

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


27 April 2021


Case summary


Abdul Mutalib bin Aziman v Public Prosecutor and other appeals 
[2021] SGHC 102



Magistrate’s Appeals Nos 9438, 9778, 9780 and 9790 of 2020


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the High Court (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):



Outcome: High Court allows in part three appeals and dismisses one
appeal against the sentences imposed by the District Court under ss 50T and
50Y of the Prisons Act (Cap 247, 2000 Rev Ed).


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


· The sentencing band approach should be applied to both enhanced sentences
under s 50T and sentences under s 50Y of the Prisons Act (Cap 247, 2000 Rev
Ed) (at [45] and [46]).


· Under this approach, the court should determine which sentencing band –
whether “low”, “moderate” or “high” – the case at hand falls under by
considering the gravity of the offence committed by the offender while on
remission, the offender’s rehabilitative prospects and “all other relevant
circumstances” (at [47], [87(a)] and    [87(b)]).


· In cases involving both s 50T and s 50Y, the cumulative sentence imposed
under these two provisions must not exceed the remaining duration of the
remission order at the time of the earliest offence committed by the
offender while on remission (at [75],    [76] and [87(c)(i)]).


· The totality principle applies in the context of ss 50T and 50Y. After
deciding the individual sentences to be imposed, the court should take a
“last look” at all the facts and circumstances of the case at hand to
determine whether the aggregate sentence is crushing and not in keeping
with the offender’s past record and future prospects (at    [86] and [87(d)]).
Background facts
1 This case involved four appeals against the sentences imposed by the
District Court under ss 50T and 50Y of the Prisons Act (Cap 247, 2000 Rev
Ed) (“Prisons Act”). The four appellants, Abdul Mutalib bin Aziman
(“Abdul”), Mani s/o Muthia Chelliah (“Mani”), Norfarah bte Amir Hamzah
(“Norfarah”) and Amanshah bin Omar (“Amanshah”), had all been released from
prison on remission subject to both the Conditional Remission System
(“CRS”) and the Mandatory Aftercare Scheme (“MAS”) set out in the Prisons
Act.

2 Under the CRS, the basic condition of a remission order was that the
ex-inmate shall not commit any fresh offence (which did not include an
offence under s 50Y(1) of the Prisons Act) while the remission order was in
effect, and shall not be convicted of and sentenced to imprisonment (not
including a default sentence of imprisonment), corrective training,
reformative training or preventive detention for any fresh offence. If this
basic condition was breached, an enhanced sentence could be imposed under s
50T of the Prisons Act for the fresh offence in addition to the underlying
sentence meted out for that offence.

3 Under the MAS, the ex-inmate was subject to various mandatory aftercare
conditions, including the mandatory aftercare condition (“MAC”) that he
shall remain indoors at his place of residence, or at such other place as
the Commissioner of Prisons might specify, at certain times of the day. The
failure to do so constituted a serious breach of a MAC, which was an
offence punishable under s 50Y(1) of the Prisons Act (a “s 50Y offence”).

4 Following their release from prison, each of the appellants committed one
or more fresh offences while on remission, and also committed a s 50Y
offence. They were sentenced by the District Court as follows:

 (a) Abdul was sentenced to: (i) nine months’ imprisonment with an enhanced
sentence of 285 days’ imprisonment for an offence of failing to present
himself for a urine test (“FPUT”); and (ii) 22 days’ imprisonment for a s
50Y offence. His aggregate sentence was nine months and 22 days’
imprisonment, with an enhancement of 285 days’ imprisonment.

 (b) Mani was sentenced to: (i) seven years’ imprisonment with an enhanced
sentence of 278 days’ imprisonment (adjusted downwards from 320 days’
imprisonment) for a drug consumption offence; (ii) 100 days’ imprisonment
for a s 50Y offence; and (iii) eight months’ imprisonment with an enhanced
sentence of 135 days’ imprisonment (adjusted downwards from 166 days’
imprisonment) for a FPUT offence. His aggregate sentence was seven years,
eight months and 100 days’ imprisonment, with an enhancement of 413 days’
imprisonment.

 (c) Norfarah was sentenced to: (i) seven years’ imprisonment with an
enhanced sentence of 272 days’ imprisonment (adjusted downwards from 444
days’ imprisonment) for a drug consumption offence; and (ii) 261 days’
imprisonment for a s 50Y offence. Her aggregate sentence was seven years
and 261 days’ imprisonment, with an enhancement of 272 days’ imprisonment.

 (d) Amanshah was sentenced to: (i) one month’s imprisonment with an
enhanced sentence of 254 days’ imprisonment for a theft in a dwelling
offence; (ii) seven years and six months’ imprisonment and six strokes of
the cane with an enhanced sentence of 368 days’ imprisonment for a drug
consumption offence; (iii) two years’ imprisonment with an enhanced
sentence of 239 days’ imprisonment for a drug possession offence; and (iv)
275 days’ imprisonment for a s 50Y offence. His aggregate sentence was
seven years, six months and 275 days’ imprisonment and six strokes of the
cane, with an enhancement of 861 days’ imprisonment.


All four appellants appealed against their respective sentences.
The High Court's decision
5 The High Court (“the Court”) observed that the CRS and the MAS aimed to
provide incentives for offenders to maintain good behaviour while they were
in prison, stay crime-free upon their release and engage in constructive
pursuits thereafter in the hope that over time, they could break free from
the cycle of criminal behaviour. To that end, ss 50T and 50Y provided a
mechanism to rescind the whole or part of the remission period granted to
an offender so as to deter him from reoffending after his release from
prison, while incentivising him to stay crime-free for as long as possible
(at [35]).

6 The Court held that the sentencing band approach should be applied to
both enhanced sentences under s 50T and sentences for s 50Y offences, and
set out the applicable sentencing framework as follows (at    [45], [46] and [87]):

 (a) First, the court should consider the gravity of the fresh or s 50Y
offence committed by the offender while on remission, the offender’s
rehabilitative prospects and “all other relevant circumstances”. In
general, the more severe the fresh or s 50Y offence committed by the
offender and the greater the harm caused, the longer the enhanced sentence
under s 50T or the sentence under s 50Y (as the case might be) would be. In
relation to enhanced sentences under s 50T specifically, the underlying
sentence imposed for the fresh offence committed by the offender would be a
significant limiting factor in relation to any enhanced sentence that might
be imposed. The offender’s rehabilitative prospects should be assessed by
considering the totality of the circumstances, including the statutory
factors set out in ss 50T(3) and 50Y(2), while the residual catch-all
category of “all other relevant circumstances” informed the court’s overall
sentencing analysis.

 (b) Next, based on the above factors, the court should determine which
sentencing band the case at hand fell under. There were three sentencing
bands:

 (i) Band 1, which comprised cases of low severity that attracted sentences
of up to one-third of the remaining duration of the remission order at the
time of the relevant offence;

 (ii) Band 2, which comprised cases of moderate severity that attracted
sentences of between one-third and two-thirds of the remaining duration of
the remission order at the time of the relevant offence; and

 (iii) Band 3, which comprised cases of high severity that attracted
sentences of between two-thirds and the full remaining duration of the
remission order at the time of the relevant offence.

 (c) Where multiple fresh offences and s 50Y offences were involved:

 (i) The cumulative sentence imposed under ss 50T and 50Y must not exceed
the remaining duration of the remission order at the time of the earliest
fresh or s 50Y offence committed by the offender while on remission (the
“earliest offence”).

 (ii) In cases involving only enhanced sentences under s 50T for fresh
offences, the court should, as a practical matter, determine the
appropriate enhanced sentence to impose (if any) in order of the most
serious to the least serious of the fresh offences, stopping once the whole
of the remaining duration of the remission order at the time of the
offender’s earliest offence had been rescinded. In cases involving both
enhanced sentences under s 50T for fresh offences and sentences for s 50Y
offences, the court should determine the imprisonment sentences for the s
50Y offences first as imprisonment was mandatory for a s 50Y offence. It
should then determine the enhanced sentences to impose (if any) for the
fresh offences (likewise from the most serious to the least serious of the
fresh offences). In order not to exceed the remaining duration of the
remission order at the time of the offender’s earliest offence, the court
might have to make adjustments to the individual sentences (whether imposed
under s 50T or under s 50Y) and/or might decide not to impose any enhanced
sentence for one or more of the fresh offences.

 (d) Finally, the court should take a “last look” at all the facts and
circumstances of the case at hand to determine whether the aggregate
sentence was crushing and not in keeping with the offender’s past record
and future prospects. Any adjustments made at this stage should be based on
good and cogent reasons, which should be clearly articulated by the court.

7 Applying the above sentencing framework, the Court allowed Abdul’s,
Norfarah’s and Amanshah’s appeals in part, and dismissed Mani’s appeal:

 (a) In relation to Abdul, the Court agreed with the 22-day imprisonment
term imposed by the District Court for the s 50Y offence, which the Court
placed at the lower end of Band 1. However, it disagreed with the enhanced
sentence of 285 days’ imprisonment that the District Court imposed for the
FPUT offence as that sentence exceeded the underlying nine-month
imprisonment sentence imposed for the offence. The Court assessed the
severity of the FPUT offence to be at the lower end of Band 2, and
considered that an enhancement of 188 days’ imprisonment was appropriate.
The Court thus reduced Abdul’s aggregate sentence to nine months and 22
days’ imprisonment, with an enhancement of 188 days’ imprisonment, and
allowed his appeal to this extent (at [91]–    [94]).

 (b) In relation to Mani, the Court held that the sentences imposed by the
District Court under ss 50T and 50Y were appropriate, having regard to: (i)
the severity of Mani’s fresh offences (which were situated at the high end
of Band 2 in the case of the drug consumption offence, and at the lowest
end of Band 2 in the case of the FPUT offence) and s 50Y offence (which was
situated in the middle of Band 1); and (ii) Mani’s rehabilitative
prospects, which did not appear to be particularly promising. The Court
also accepted the downward calibrations made by the District Court to the
enhanced sentences under s 50T so that Mani’s cumulative sentence under ss
50T and 50Y would not exceed the remaining duration of his remission order
at the time of his earliest offence. There was no basis to interfere with
the District Court’s exercise of its discretion to order the underlying
sentences for Mani’s fresh offences to run consecutively rather than
concurrently. As for the mitigating factors raised by Mani, they carried
little weight because the offences which Mani committed while on remission,
including those taken into consideration for sentencing purposes, were so
numerous and so severe that ultimately, the imposition of a cumulative
sentence under ss 50T and 50Y that was close to the maximum duration of the
cumulative sentence that could be imposed was warranted. In any case, the
District Court had taken those mitigating factors into account in
determining the sentences to impose on Mani under ss 50T and 50Y. In all
the circumstances, the Court found Mani’s appeal to be without merit and
thus dismissed it (at [99]–[107]).

 (c) In relation to Norfarah, the Court situated her s 50Y offence at the
lower end of Band 1 and reduced the sentence for that offence from 261
days’ imprisonment to 50 days’ imprisonment. As regards the drug
consumption offence, the Court situated that offence at the high end of
Band 2 and increased the enhanced sentence for that offence from 272 days’
imprisonment to 355 days’ imprisonment. Overall, due to the reduction of
the sentence for the s 50Y offence, even though the enhanced sentence for
the drug consumption offence was increased, Norfarah’s aggregate sentence
was reduced to seven years and 50 days’ imprisonment, with an enhancement
of 355 days’ imprisonment. To that extent, her appeal was allowed (at    [111]–[114]).

 (d) In relation to Amanshah, the Court held that the main difficulty with
the District Court’s decision was that the cumulative sentence imposed
under ss 50T and 50Y exceeded the remaining duration of Amanshah’s
remission order at the time of his earliest offence. Having regard to the
severity of and the circumstances surrounding Amanshah’s s 50Y offence and
drug consumption offence, the Court considered that: (i) a sentence of 490
days’ imprisonment, rather than the 275-day imprisonment term imposed by
the District Court, was appropriate for the s 50Y offence, which was
situated at the higher end of Band 2; and (ii) an enhancement of 678 days’
imprisonment was appropriate for the drug consumption offence, which was
situated at the mid-point of Band 3. As the aggregate of these two
sentences exceeded the remaining duration of Amanshah’s remission order at
the time of his earliest offence, the Court did not proceed further to
ascertain the appropriate enhanced sentences to impose (if any) for his
other two fresh offences (namely, the theft in a dwelling offence and the
drug possession offence). At the same time, the Court adjusted the enhanced
sentence for the drug consumption offence downwards from 678 days’
imprisonment to 371 days’ imprisonment so that Amanshah’s cumulative
sentence under ss 50T and 50Y would not exceed the remaining duration of
his remission order at the time of his earliest offence. Overall, as a
result of the Court’s downward calibration of the enhanced sentence for
Amanshah’s drug consumption offence coupled with its decision not to impose
any enhanced sentence for his other two fresh offences, notwithstanding the
increase in the sentence for his s 50Y offence, Amanshah’s aggregate
sentence was reduced to seven years, six months and 490 days’ imprisonment
and six strokes of the cane, with an enhancement of 371 days’ imprisonment.
To that extent, his appeal was allowed (at [119]–    [125]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


