

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


5 March 2021


Case summary



CIMB Bank Berhad v World Fuel Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd and another
appeal

[2021] SGCA 19



Civil Appeal Nos 107 and 130 of 2020 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Appellate
Division Woo Bih Li):



Outcome: CoA dismisses the appeal and upholds the High Court’s
decision to dismiss claims made by a bank as a legal assignee under a deed
of debenture.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


· The authenticity of a document may be put in issue even if there is no
allegation of forgery of the signatures on the document (at    [43]).


· Where the authenticity of a document is in issue, its original should
generally be properly adduced through a witness of the party relying on it
(at [46]).


· If the authenticity of a document is put in issue because the
authenticity of the signatures therein is disputed, these issues would
overlap. A party who has the burden of proving the authenticity of a
document has to first produce primary or secondary evidence thereof.
Thereafter, it also has to prove that the document is what it purports to
be, which would include proving the authenticity of the signatures if
authenticity is in dispute (at [54]).


· A party may rely on indirect or circumstantial evidence to establish the
authenticity of a document even where direct evidence would have been
available (at [61]).


Background to the appeal


1 CA 107/2020 arose out of a decision of the High Court judge (“Judge”)
dismissing the claims of the appellant, CIMB Bank Berhad (“CIMB”) in HC/S
184/2018, on the ground that the authenticity of a deed of debenture (“the
Debenture”), which formed the basis of its claims, was not established. CA
130/2020 was CIMB’s appeal against the Judge’s costs order.


2 The respondent, World Fuel Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“WFS”) was a
bunker trader and purchased marine fuel from Panoil. Panoil was CIMB’s
customer and took banking facilities from it. 11 of these sale transactions
between WFS and Panoil were the subject of CIMB’s claims (the “Subject
Transactions”).


3 CIMB’s case was that Panoil had executed the Debenture in favour of CIMB
over all goods and/or receivables and documents representing goods financed
by CIMB as security. In respect of the Subject Transactions, Panoil issued
invoices to WFS (“Invoices”). In or around August 2017, Panoil faced
financial difficulties. CIMB gave notice to WFS by way of a notice of
assignment dated 29 August 2017 (the “NOA”) that Panoil had assigned all
its rights, title, interest and benefit under the Invoices to CIMB. CIMB
then demanded payment from WFS of the sums under the Invoices including
late payment interest. When WFS did not make payment, CIMB commenced HC/S
184/2018 based on its rights under the Debenture as the legal assignee. WFS
disputed the authenticity of the Debenture and also claimed a right of
set-off against the Invoices.


4 CIMB’s case was that the contracts governing the Subject Transactions
were (a) Panoil’s sales confirmations (“Panoil’s Sales Confirmations”),
which incorporated Panoil’s terms and conditions for sales of marine fuel
(“Panoil’s Terms and Conditions”); and (b) the corresponding Invoices
issued by Panoil (collectively, the “Sales Contracts”). Clause 8.2 of
Panoil’s Terms and Conditions precluded the right of set-off (“Clause
8.2”).


5 WFS’ case was that the Subject Transactions were instead governed by
three contracts entered into between WFS and Panoil in 2016 and 2017 (the
“Umbrella Contracts”). In addition, Panoil and WFS had entered into an
offset agreement providing for the mutual setting off of certain payable
sums (the “2014 Offset Agreement”). Under the 2014 Offset Agreement and the
Umbrella Contracts, WFS was entitled to set off the sums due under the
Invoices to Panoil.


6 CIMB argued that the Umbrella Contracts did not apply to the Subject
Transactions, and that the terms of the 2014 Offset Agreement did not apply
to or were not incorporated into the Sales Contracts. In any event, any
right of set-off which arose under the Umbrella Contracts and/or the 2014
Offset Agreement had been superseded by Clause 8.2.


7 WFS claimed that in exercise of its rights under the 2014 Offset
Agreement, it had issued eight offset notices and that by virtue of these
notices, it had set off the entire sum due to Panoil under the Invoices.


8 The Judge dismissed CIMB’s claim on the ground that it failed to prove
the authenticity of the Debenture. The Judge however went on to consider
the other issues in contention and found in favour of CIMB in respect of
those issues. In particular, the Judge found that Panoil’s Sales
Confirmations governed the Subject Transactions and the Umbrella Contracts
did not. The Judge did not find it necessary to make a finding as to
whether the 2014 Offset Arrangement governed the Subject Transactions as
Clause 8.2 superseded any right of set-off that would have arisen under the
2014 Offset Agreement as well as the Umbrella Contracts.


9 The issues that arose for determination in the appeal were whether CIMB
had proven the authenticity of the Debenture and whether WFS was entitled
to a contractual or equitable right of set-off.


The decision of the Court 


10 The authenticity of a document may be put in issue in various ways. The
Court found that WFS had put the authenticity of the Debenture in issue.
Although the non-admissions in the Defence were general and did not
specifically mention that the execution of the Debenture was not admitted,
this did not mean that WFS had accepted the existence of the Debenture such
that the authenticity of the Debenture was not in issue. By issuing two
notices of non-admission, in particular the second notice of non-admission,
WFS had made it clear to CIMB that it was disputing the authenticity of the
Debenture. It was not necessary for WFS to plead that the signatures on the
Debenture were forged. It was open to WFS to plead forgery if it had a
basis for doing so or it could simply put CIMB to strict proof of the
execution of the Debenture (at [36],    [39], [42] and [43]).


11 Since authenticity was in issue, the original of the Debenture should
have been adduced through one of CIMB’s witnesses instead of being produced
by CIMB’s counsel during cross-examination of a witness for WFS. However,
the omission was not fatal in this case. WFS had inspected the original
copy although WFS did not admit its authenticity after inspection. The
original was eventually marked in court without objection. At that time,
WFS’ counsel did not argue that the original should have been introduced
through one of CIMB’s witnesses. Also, in closing submissions before the
Judge, no such objection was raised by WFS. Furthermore, it was not alleged
at the trial, or in the appeal, that the form and contents of the original
were not the same as the copy exhibited in the affidavit of
evidence-in-chief of CIMB’s witness Ms Khoo or the copy found in CIMB’s
core bundle of documents for the trial. Accordingly, the original had been
adduced in evidence by CIMB (at [46] and    [47]).


12 CIMB’s argument that it had discharged its burden of proof on
authenticity by simply producing the original document in court arose from
a misinterpretation of the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev Ed) (“EA”). After
primary or secondary evidence of a document is produced, the authenticity
of the document still has to be established. CIMB’s further argument that
the authenticity of a document and the authenticity of signatures therein
were two distinct issues was also incorrect. The authenticity of a document
could be put in issue because the authenticity of the signatures
was disputed. In such a case, they would not be two distinct issues. A
party who has the burden of proving the authenticity of a document first
has to produce primary or secondary evidence thereof, ie, the
alleged original or a copy, within the provisions of the EA. Thereafter, it
also has to prove that the document is what it purports to be. This would
include proving the authenticity of the signatures if authenticity was in
dispute (at [50], [52] and [54]).


13 Section 69 of the EA did not provide that the authenticity of the
document could be established only by direct evidence, ie, by the
signatories themselves or by a witness to the signatories. A party could
rely on indirect or circumstantial evidence to establish authenticity even
where direct evidence would have been available. Although CIMB did not call
the two Panoil officers who had allegedly witnessed Panoil’s common seal
being affixed to the Debenture, the circumstantial evidence to establish
the authenticity of the Debenture was overwhelming (at    [56], [61]–[66]).


14 Section 75 of the EA provided that the court had the power to compare
signatures on a disputed document with other signatures admitted or proved
to the satisfaction of the court to have been made by the signatories, but
the court was not obliged to do so. There was insufficient basis in this
case to say that the Judge had erred in declining to exercise the power
under s 75 of the EA (at [67]–[69]).


15 On the set-off issue, the Court found that WFS was entitled to rely on
the 2014 Offset Agreement for a right of set-off. The Court found that WFS
had intended the 2014 Offset Agreement to apply to the Subject
Transactions. Assuming that each Sales Confirmation from Panoil was the
applicable contract document for each of the sales by Panoil to WFS, the
2014 Offset Agreement would nevertheless not have been superseded by Clause
8.2. The 2014 Offset Agreement was a short one-page document covering one
substantive issue, ie, the right of set-off; whereas Clause 8.2
was part of a pre-printed set of general terms and was merely one
provision in a set of terms canvassing multiple issues. Panoil’s Sales
Confirmations were pre-printed documents unilaterally issued by Panoil.
Conversely, the 2014 Offset Agreement was signed by both parties. WFS’
right of set-off under the 2014 Offset Agreement took precedence over
Clause 8.2. It was unnecessary to consider the question of the application
of the Umbrella Contracts to the Subject Transactions or WFS’ claim to an
equitable set-off (at [85]–[89] and [93]
).


16 CA 130/2020 was CIMB’s appeal on costs if its appeal were dismissed.
CIMB had assumed that that if its appeal were dismissed, it would be for
the same reason relied upon by the Judge. As the appeal was dismissed for a
different reason, CIMB no longer had a basis to complain about the costs
order below (at [95] and [96]). The Court
therefore dismissed the appeals.






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


