

 SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


5 March 2021


Case summary 


Toh Eng Tiah v Jiang Angelina and another appeal 
[2021] SGCA 17


Civil Appeals Nos 73 and 74 of 2020


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of the Court of
Appeal Andrew Phang Boon Leong):



Outcome: CoA holds that a purported loan agreement was a sham and
finds that transfers made from one party to another were gifts and not
loans.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


· The parol evidence rule embodied in ss 93 and 94 of the Evidence Act (Cap
97, 1997 Rev Ed) only applies if there is a contract in the first place: at    [71]. As such, the parol evidence rule has no application
when the allegation is that a purported agreement is a sham, since, if the
agreement is proved to be a sham that would mean that it was not intended
to create enforceable legal obligations and no contract would have been
formed: at [77].


Background


1 The appellant in CA/CA 73/2020 (“CA 73”) and the respondent in CA/CA
74/2020 (“CA 74”) was Mr Toh Eng Tiah (“Mr Toh”). The respondent in CA 73
and the appellant in CA 74 was Ms Angelina Jiang (“Ms Jiang”). Mr Toh and
Ms Jiang met each other sometime in November 2016 and entered into a
romantic relationship around 20 December 2016.


2 Mr Toh was married at the material time. He was a director and
shareholder of a number of companies, including ST Paper Resources Pte Ltd
(“Mr Toh’s company”). Ms Jiang was a licensed property agent and manager of
a construction and engineering company, and the owner of a property at 13
Prome Road.


3 Ms Jiang received money from Mr Toh on a number of occasions between
December 2016 and March 2017. These transfers are summarised in the
following table:







Item




Date




Amount ($)








            1.
            



            On or around 19 December 2016
            



            200,000
            





            2.
            



            On or around 22 December 2016
            



            20,000
            





            3.
            



            On or around 28 December 2016
            



            20,000
            





            4.
            



            29 December 2016
            



            13,000
            





            5.
            



            3 January 2017
            



            10,000
            





            6.
            



            6 January 2017
            



            65,000
            





            7.
            



            6 January 2017
            



            35,000
            





            8.
            



            10 January 2017
            



            50,000
            





            9.
            



            12 January 2017
            



            150,000
            





            10.
            



            24 January 2017
            



            82,000
            





            11.
            



            31 January 2017
            



            158,532
            





            12.
            



            6 March 2017
            



            16,000
            





Sub-Total (1 to 12)




819,532






            13.
            



            26 January 2017
            



            30,800
            





            14.
            



            27 February 2017
            



            123,200
            





            15.
            



            21 March 2017
            



            250,000
            





            16.
            



            24 March 2017
            



            872,000
            





Sub-Total (13 to 16)




1,276,000






Total




2,095,532







4 Item 1 was remitted to Ms Jiang to assist her in purchasing a shophouse.
Items 2 to 12 were intended to be used for various expenses and to pay off
debts that Ms Jiang owed.


5 Between January and February 2017, Ms Jiang also transferred various sums
totalling $95,000 to Mr Toh. This amount formed part of Ms Jiang’s
counterclaim.


6 Items 13 to 16 were transfers relating to the purchase of a house at 9
Hillcrest Road. On 26 January 2017, Mr Toh issued a cheque of $30,800 (Item
13) and the option to purchase was issued in Ms Jiang’s name. After an
initial cheque was countermanded, Mr Toh issued a new cheque on 27 February
2017 for $123,200 (Item 14) for Ms Jiang to exercise the option to
purchase.


7 When issues with the financing of the purchase of 9 Hillcrest Road arose,
various proposals were considered and rejected by the parties. However,
sometime between 23 and 27 February 2017, they decided that some terms
should be documented. Ms Jiang instructed her solicitor, Mr Christopher
Yong (“Mr Yong”) to begin preparing a formal document. A series of drafts
was exchanged between Ms Jiang’s lawyers and Mr Toh’s lawyer, Ms Pamela
Chong. These drafts resulted in what was called the Loan Facilities
Agreement (“LFA”). Before the LFA was signed, Mr Toh passed a cheque of
$250,000 to Ms Jiang (Item 15). The LFA was signed on 24 March 2017.


8 The LFA provided that the loan facility was in the amount of $2m. Out of
that sum, it was stated that Mr Toh had already advanced $1,128,000 by
March 2017 (this included the $250,000 advanced on 21 March 2017) and that
the remainder would be disbursed by cashier’s order or cheque for $872,000
(cl 2.2). The loan facility was to be fully repaid upon either the sale of
13 Prome Road or on the redemption date (ie, 10 years from the
date of full disbursement of the loan facility or upon occurrence of an
event of default), whichever was earlier.


9 The sum of $1,128,000 mentioned in cl 2.2 had been arrived at by adding
Items 1 to 15 together then deducting the $95,000 which Ms Jiang had
transferred to Mr Toh. This gave a figure of $1,128,532 which was then
rounded down to $1,128,000.


10 On 24 March 2017, after the LFA was signed, Mr Toh handed a cheque for
$872,000 to Ms Jiang (Item 16 above). Ultimately, however, the purchase of
9 Hillcrest Road did not go through.


11 Sometime around 31 March 2017, Ms Jiang transferred a sum of $150,000 to
Mr Toh. Following this, Mr Yong prepared three drafts of a Deed of Gift on
Ms Jiang’s instructions, but none of these was executed by Mr Toh. The
parties grew distant and, by 12 May 2017, Ms Jiang was unable to contact Mr
Toh.


The decision of the High Court


12 In HC/S 621/2017, Mr Toh claimed repayment of the sum of $2m referred to
in the LFA, on the basis that the moneys that he had advanced to Ms Jiang
were loans and not gifts. He also sought to set aside the LFA in order to
obtain immediate repayment. In response, Ms Jiang asserted that all of the
moneys transferred to her had been gifts. As for the LFA, her primary case
was that it was unenforceable as a sham. She claimed that they had intended
that the LFA would only be used to placate Mr Toh’s wife (“Mdm Chong”),
enhance Mr Toh’s standing in the eyes of his colleagues and friends, and
also to obtain funds from Mr Toh’s company for the purchase of 9 Hillcrest
Road. Ms Jiang also counterclaimed for, inter alia, the sums of
$95,000 and $150,000 that she had transferred to Mr Toh.


13 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) came to the following conclusions on
the specific transfers:


a. Item 1 was a loan as the parties had entered into an express loan
agreement and they had met just the month before.


b. Items 2 to 12 were gifts. Mr Toh had promised to provide for Ms Jiang
and there was nothing in the contemporaneous evidence to suggest that these
were loans.


c. Items 13 and 14 were gifts. The Judge rejected Mr Toh’s evidence that 9
Hillcrest Road was Ms Jiang’s investment property and found instead that
both parties were looking to buy a property together at the time.


d. Items 15 and 16 were loans, as Item 15 was transferred while the LFA was
being drafted and Item 16 was described in the LFA as a loan. The Judge
found that the LFA was complete on its face and there was no ambiguity. The
parties were legally represented and the LFA went through a number of
drafts. The parties’ intention was therefore to be found in the LFA and the
parol evidence rule in ss 93 and 94 of the Evidence Act (Cap 97, 1997 Rev
Ed) (“EA”) applied.


14 The Judge rejected Mr Toh’s attempts to set aside the LFA, as there was
no evidence that Mr Toh could not appreciate the document he had signed, he
had access to counsel, he could have sought clarification on the terms of
the LFA, and he had indeed protected his own interests. As for the
counterclaim, the Judge found that the sums of $95,000 and $150,000 were
transferred by Ms Jiang as loans to Mr Toh. Hence, as Mr Toh was only
entitled to immediate repayment of Item 1 ($200,000), and Ms Jiang was
entitled to be paid $245,000, the Judge set off the sums and ordered Mr Toh
to pay $45,000 to Ms Jiang. The Judge awarded Ms Jiang the costs of the
suit fixed at $174,000 and reasonable disbursements.


The Court of Appeal’s decision


15 Mr Toh and Ms Jiang appealed against the respective parts of the Judge’s
decision that were not in their favour. CA 73 was Mr Toh’s appeal against
the Judge’s decision concerning Items 2 to 14, the vitiating factors and
the counterclaim (to the extent that it was allowed). CA 74 was Ms Jiang’s
appeal against the Judge’s decision concerning Items 1, 15 and 16.




Whether the Judge’s characterisation of Items 1 to 14 were correct




16 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) observed that a valid gift    inter vivos was made where there was an intention to gift and
delivery of the precise subject matter of the gift. The subjective
intention of the donor was assessed at the time of the transfer. A gift
could not be revoked unless some ground for setting aside the transfer
could be found. However, the Court left open the question of whether no
subsequent agreement could oblige a donee to repay a sum of money initially
given as a gift: at [52], [53] and [55].


17 In relation to Item 1, Ms Jiang did not appeal against the Judge’s
finding that it was a loan. Her argument was that the repayment of the loan
was waived by Mr Toh. The Court found that the representations made by Mr
Toh did not amount to waiver of her obligation to repay the $200,000: at    [56] and [59].


18 In relation to Items 2 to 12, the Court found that the Judge correctly
considered the transfers against the background of the parties’ romantic
relationship. Mr Toh had not challenged the Judge’s findings about their
relationship on appeal. Once those factual findings were accepted, the only
question was whether there was evidence to show that the transfers were
otherwise treated as loans. However, there was none. The messages in which
Ms Jiang appeared to state that she would “return” the moneys “owe[d]” were
not premised on a legal obligation to repay. The handwritten notes relied
upon by Mr Toh to suggest that the parties kept strict records of the
transfers were also not probative: at [61]–[63].


19 In relation to Items 13 and 14, the Court agreed with the Judge that the
purpose of the purchase of 9 Hillcrest Road was to provide a home for Mr
Toh and Ms Jiang. The Court agreed with the Judge’s finding that Mr Toh’s
claim for Items 13 and 14 was inconsistent with his decision not to seek
repayment for the sum advanced for the option fee for another property the
parties were viewing at the time. The transfers also occurred before the
LFA was drafted or contemplated, and there was no other evidence that the
transfers were loans instead of gifts: at [66].



Whether the Judge erred in his conclusions on the LFA



20 The Court first considered whether the Judge erred in his application of
the parol evidence rule embodied in ss 93 and 94 of the EA. Sections 93 and
94 operated in conjunction as rules concerning the proof of the terms of
the contract. As the application of s 94 of the EA was contingent on the
application of s 93, the central question was whether s 93 of the EA
applied. Section 93 would not apply where parties have not reduced the
contract to the form of a document and where there was no requirement to do
so. Implicit in this requirement was that there was a contract in the first
place: at [69]–[71].


21 The essential element of a sham was that the parties did not intend to
create the legal relations that the acts done or documents executed gave
the impression of creating. Hence, the legal basis for the courts not
enforcing a sham agreement lay in the absence of an intention to create
legal relations, which was an essential element of finding the existence of
a contract. Where the allegation was that the agreement was a sham, that
was a question that went to the very existence of the contract. It followed
that the issue of whether the agreement was a sham was prior to and would
necessarily not engage s 93 of the EA and, accordingly, s 94. As the Judge
based his reasoning primarily on the parol evidence rule, this was an
appropriate case for the Court to re-examine the evidence: at[74], [76], [77] and    [79].


22 The Court then considered whether the facts disclosed a sham. The Court
found that while there were arguments going both ways, there was enough
evidence on which to find a common intention between Mr Toh and Ms Jiang
that the LFA would not create the legal rights and obligations which it
gave the appearance of creating: at [81].


a. Against the background of the gifts and the parties’ romantic
relationship, the introduction of the LFA as a formal commercial agreement
appeared incongruent: at [84].


b. The LFA included Items 1 to 12 but described the loans as being for the
purchase of 9 Hillcrest Road. There was no reason why Items 1 to 12 should
be included in the LFA as the moneys had already been transferred and
spent, and it was obviously false to state that they were for the purpose
of purchasing 9 Hillcrest Road. The history of the drafting of the LFA also
showed that the prior transfers were not included in the LFA from the
outset. The evidence supported Ms Jiang’s explanation that they were
included as Mdm Chong had discovered the existence of these prior
transfers. As it was Ms Jiang’s belief that the moneys she had received
from Mr Toh prior to the LFA were gifts, she must have received some
assurance from Mr Toh that she would not be prejudiced by the
characterisation of those sums as moneys advanced under the LFA: at    [86]–[89].


c. The parties intended to purchase 9 Hillcrest Road as a home. This
supported Ms Jiang’s case and contradicted the recital in the LFA which
referred to the purchase as being for investment: at [90]
and [91].


d. The LFA emerged at a time when Mr Toh was contemplating a divorce and
there were serious rifts between him and Mdm Chong, and while there were
also issues pertaining to the financing of the purchase of 9 Hillcrest
Road. As Mr Toh had taken a bank loan to reduce the value of assets
available to Mdm Chong in the event of divorce, Ms Jiang’s claim that the
LFA was intended to get around Mdm Chong’s objections to further transfers
of money was plausible. Mr Toh had also rejected other proposed financing
arrangements as he did not wish to burden Ms Jiang and this likely carried
over to when they decided to enter into a written agreement. The evidence
also showed that the LFA was a response to issues arising from Mdm Chong’s
knowledge of their relationship, the consequent restrictions on Mr Toh’s
finances, and the need for Mr Toh to assist Ms Jiang in financing the
purchase of 9 Hillcrest Road. There was also evidence that Mr Toh was
willing to let Ms Jiang have the money without a written agreement:    [93]–[100] and [102]–[105].


e. Mr Toh admitted during cross-examination that the parties had a mutual
understanding that the LFA would not be enforced against Ms Jiang. Further,
his messages to Ms Jiang in April 2017 were inconsistent with his claim
that he had been “cheated” by Ms Jiang as to the terms of the LFA: at    [108] and [109].


f. Mr Toh had not asked his lawyer to be at the signing of the LFA, and had
told Mr Yong and Ms Jiang that this was because he had discharged his
lawyer. This was revealing of Mr Toh’s attitude towards the LFA: at    [110] and [111].


23 The Court also considered the countervailing factors but found that they
could either be explained consistently with a sham or were not sufficiently
probative as to displace the factors above.


a. While both parties engaged lawyers, this was consistent with a desire to
make the LFA look as legitimate as possible. The fact that both parties
included terms that protected their interests could plausibly have been to
make the LFA look realistic, or to protect their interests if the LFA was
sued upon by a party who was not aware of the sham: at    [113].


b. While Mr Toh acted on the LFA by delivering a cheque for $872,000 after
signing the LFA, the mere fact that money was transferred in compliance
with the form prescribed by the LFA did not necessarily mean that the LFA
was not a sham, because the sham was not intended to hide the    existence of the transfers: at [115].


c. Even though there was no evidence that the LFA was used for the purposes
alleged by Ms Jiang, the Court observed that a failed purpose did not mean
that the parties did not have that purpose in the first place. The Court
also found that the purposes alleged by Ms Jiang would have been served by
the LFA: at [116] and [117]).


d. The draft Deed of Gift, which Mr Toh argued showed that Ms Jiang knew
that the sums advanced under the LFA were loans, was never executed because
Ms Jiang thought that it was ultimately unnecessary on the basis of Mr
Toh’s assurances that the moneys were gifts: at [119].


e. A voice recording and various photographs of messages purportedly from
Ms Jiang were not given much weight as they lacked context: at    [120]–[122].


f. The mere fact that the parties recorded the sums transferred to Ms Jiang
in handwritten notes was equally consistent with a desire to ensure that
the sham agreement accounted for all of the moneys transferred: at    [123].


24 The Court therefore found that the LFA was a sham. The LFA was not
enforceable against Ms Jiang and the Court reversed the Judge’s findings on
Items 15 and 16. Further, the LFA would not be relevant in determining
whether Items 2 to 12 were gifts: at [126].




Whether the Judge erred in allowing Ms Jiang’s counterclaim to the
extent that he did




25 The Judge did not err in allowing Ms Jiang’s counterclaim for the sums
of $95,000 and $150,000. The $95,000 was transferred to Mr Toh and was not
proved to be for repayment of any existing debt. Mr Toh also admitted that
the $150,000 was a loan: at [128] and    [129].


Conclusion


26 The Court therefore dismissed CA 73 and allowed CA 74 in part. The Court
upheld the Judge’s finding that Ms Jiang owed $200,000 (Item 1) to Mr Toh,
and that Mr Toh owed $245,000 to Ms Jiang. Setting off these sums against
each other, Mr Toh was to pay $45,000 to Ms Jiang. As Ms Jiang succeeded in
CA 73 and substantially succeeded in CA 74, the Court awarded her costs of
the appeals fixed at $75,000 (all-in): at [132].






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


