

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


6 October 2020


Case summary


JTrust Asia Pte Ltd v Group Lease Holdings Pte Ltd and others 
[2020] SGCA 95

Civil Appeal No 21 of 2020 




Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Steven Chong):



Outcome: CoA allows the appellant’s appeal against the Judge’s decision in
relation to its claims in the tort of deceit and unlawful conspiracy.


Background 


1 JTrust Asia Pte Ltd (“JTA”) invested US$210m in Group Lease Public
Company Ltd (“GL Thailand”) under three investment agreements in reliance
on GL Thailand’s consolidated financial statements and representations made
by Mr Mitsuji Konoshita (“MK”) as to GL Thailand’s financial health and
profitability to Mr Nobuyoshi Fujisawa (“Fujisawa”), the managing director
and Chief Executive Officer of JTA, and Mr Shigeyoshi Asano (“Asano”), a
director of JTA and J Trust Japan. (at [13], [15]–[16])


2 On 16 October 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission of Thailand
(the “Commission”) issued a news release stating that Group Lease Holdings
Pte Ltd (“GLH”), a subsidiary of GL Thailand, had issued sham loans the
interest on which was repaid using the loan principals under a
round-tripping scheme designed to inflate GL Thailand’s operating results.
The borrowers included the Cyprus Borrowers and Cougar ie, the
third to seventh respondents, who were allegedly owned and controlled
ultimately by MK. Following the Commission’s news release, the auditors of
GL Thailand issued a report revising GL Thailand’s 2015, 2016, the first
quarter of 2017 (“Q1 2017”) and the second quarter of 2017 (“Q2 2017”)
profits and net assets downwards. (at [18] and     [20])


3 On 26 December 2017, JTA brought an action in HC/S 1212/2017 (the “Suit”)
in the tort of deceit against GLH and MK, as well as in the tort of
conspiracy against the first to seventh respondents, alleging that they
conspired to defraud JTA of its investment in GL Thailand. Following the
trial, the Judge dismissed JTA’s claims in deceit and conspiracy.
Thereafter, JTA appealed against the Judge’s dismissal of JTA’s claims in
deceit and conspiracy. (at [1] and [21])





The Court of Appeal’s decision



Key features of the deceit and unlawful conspiracy claims



4 The Court of Appeal (“the Court”) observed that JTA’s claims in both the
torts of deceit and unlawful conspiracy were largely premised on two
principal features: (a) the GLH Loans were shams and not arm’s length
transactions; and (b) MK was the beneficial owner of the Borrowers, which
was supported by the evidence. (at [41])


The GLH Loans were shams


5 The objective documentary evidence supported the two levels of
round-tripping in the tune of at least US$46.6m, which served as a feature
to confirm the sham nature of all the GLH Loans. (at [47] 
and [77])


6 Based on the evidence of the two levels of round-tripping, coupled with
the unusual and suspicious nature of the GLH Loans and that many of the
repayments were in fact paid by MK through APF BVI, the incontrovertible
inference to be drawn was that (a) all the GLH Loans were shams created to
disguise the true nature of the transactions and were not legitimate
transactions earning proper profits; and (b) JTA’s investments were in fact
not used for the purpose of driving the growth of GL Thailand’s retail
financing business as was represented by MK to JTA. (at    [86], [91]–[96]).


7 Further, the Court observed that the “goodwill” defence should have been
rejected and the GLH Loans were clearly shams. The acceptance of the
“goodwill defence” was premised on an inference wrongly drawn by the Judge
without any evidential basis. Taking into consideration the Vontobel
Documents and the Fidescorp Documents adduced as fresh evidence on appeal
as well as the evidence before the court below, the acceptance of the
“goodwill” defence was plainly against the weight of the evidence. (at    [99]–[100]).


MK’s true control and/or beneficial ownership of the Borrowers


8 The Court found that the first to seventh respondents had not proven the
true beneficial ownership of the Borrowers by the Kuga family and the
Kiasrithanakorn family respectively, and on a balance of probabilities, the
Borrowers were instead beneficially owned by MK (at [111]
).


Deceit claim


9 In respect of its deceit claim, the Court held that JTA sufficiently
proved that MK and GLH had made two forms of misrepresentations: (a) GLH’s
representations through the medium of GL Thailand’s financial statements
which were warranted to be accurate; and (b) MK’s personal representations.
The Court found that but for the GLH Loans, the quarterly and full-year net
profits of GL Thailand would have been substantially lower, thereby
impacting the profitability of GL Thailand. (at [145] and     [165])


10 The Court was also satisfied that JTA’s reliance was made out on the
evidence and the Judge had erred in finding otherwise. It was no answer
that Asano and Fujisawa failed to examine the consolidated financial
statements in detail. While an investor may not have fully appreciated the
specific details in a financial statement, he was nonetheless entitled to
rely on the “general impression of profitability” disclosed in GL
Thailand’s financial statements.
(at [168] and [188])


11 The Court also held that the Judge’s finding that GLH’s financial
statements were not prepared with the requisite dishonest intention was
plainly wrong and against the weight of the evidence before the court. JTA
had adequately demonstrated how GLH’s intent figured in the preparation of
GL Thailand’s financial statements. (at [201])


Unlawful conspiracy claim


12 The Court held that JTA had proven the element of intention to cause
loss to JTA and find the first to seventh respondents liable under the
unlawful conspiracy claim. The Judge appeared not to have considered the
objective evidence on the round-tripping and the involvement of Cougar and
the Cyprus Borrowers. The first to seventh respondents’ intention to injure
could be inferred from their involvement in the two levels of
round-tripping. (at [206] and [210])


Exclusion of GL 
Thailand
 as a party


13 The Court disagreed with the Judge’s observations and could not see how
GL Thailand’s exclusion as a party would be fatal to JTA’s claim. There was
no rule that every alleged conspirator must be made a defendant for a
conspiracy action to succeed. Liability for the tort of conspiracy was
joint and several, and a plaintiff was entitled to sue whomever he wishes.
(at [212] and [213])


Abuse of Process


14 Even though it appeared that Cougar had indeed aligned itself with JTA,
the Court agreed with the Judge’s holding that JTA’s conduct had not risen
to the level where striking out its entire claim was justified. The Court
found that the Judge was correct not to strike out JTA’s claim on the
ground of abuse of process. It would have been wholly disproportionate
particularly in light of the Court’s findings on the merits of JTA’s claims
against the respondents. (at [220])    



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.



