

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


9 March 2020


Case summary



Ascend Field Pte Ltd and others v Tee Wee Sien and another appeal
[2020] SGCA 14.

Civil Appeal Nos 85 and 86 of 2019



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith
Prakash):



Outcome: CoA allows appeal in CA 85 in respect of the unlawful means
conspiracy claim and appeal in CA 86 in respect of part of the oppression
claim.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· A breach of fiduciary duties by a director does not by itself constitute
oppression of a shareholder. Oppression arises where a violation of the
shareholder’s legitimate expectations results in an injury that amounts to
commercial unfairness.


· Some degree of informality and flexibility in arrangements was to be
expected in quasi-partnerships.


· A company in an oppression action should be separately represented from
the alleged oppressor, even where the latter continues to manage the
company.


 


Introduction


1 Mr Tee Wee Sien (“Mr Tee”) had commenced an action against Ascend Field
Pte Ltd (“AFPL”), Mr Ng Meng Lay (“Mr Ng”), Yi Fang Xiang Services (“YFX”)
and Ms Kor Chee Kuan (“Ms Kor”) (collectively referred to as “the
defendants”) on the grounds of oppression under s 216 of the Companies Act
and conspiracy by unlawful means (“the Action”). CA 85 and 86 were the
parties’ appeals against the decision of the High Court Judge (“the Judge”)
to allow Mr Tee’s claims in part.


Background to the appeal


2 Mr Ng and Mr Tee set up AFPL in June 2011. Although both men agreed that
they had an informal understanding prior to the incorporation of AFPL,
subsequently the content of that informal understanding was in dispute. Mr
Ng and Mr Tee were equal shareholders in AFPL. Prior to the incorporation
of AFPL, Mr Ng and his wife, Ms Kor, were running YFX, which provided
cleaning services for office premises and buildings.


3 Mr Tee was a signatory of AFPL’s bank account from AFPL’s incorporation
to 2012 (when he withdrew), and from March 2015 (when he was reinstated).
He subsequently claimed to have discovered various lapses in AFPL’s
management after his reinstatement, including AFPL’s payment of “service
fees” to YFX and the deployment of AFPL’s employees to YFX’s projects.


4 Around 2016, Mr Tee and his business partner, Mr Ching, grew concerned
about Mr Ng’s management of AFPL and decided to restructure AFPL’s
operations. The relationship between Mr Ng and Mr Tee subsequently broke
down. Mr Tee engaged a private investigator and obtained evidence that Mr
Ng had deployed AFPL’s employees, equipment and resources for YFX’s
benefit. On 9 June 2016, Mr Ng removed Mr Tee as a signatory of AFPL’s bank
account.


5 From April 2016 to July 2016, five contracts to clean a number of
premises were diverted from AFPL to YFX. Mr Tee commenced the Action on 12
July 2016.


6 The Judge accepted that the informal understanding between Mr Ng and Mr
Tee was that Mr Ng was to run AFPL’s day-to-day operations but was to seek
Mr Tee and Mr Ching’s approval for major decisions. The Judge found that Mr
Ng had wrongfully diverted the five AFPL contracts to YFX. The Judge
ordered the defendants to account for the profits derived from these
contracts. The Judge also found that there was a reciprocal arrangement for
AFPL and YFX to assist each other – AFPL was ordered to account for the
benefits it derived for any uncompensated use of YFX’s employees and YFX
was ordered to account for the benefits it derived from its uncompensated
use of AFPL’s employees. The Judge also ordered an inquiry into the extent
of YFX’s use of AFPL’s vehicle and equipment. Mr Tee’s other claims of
oppression under s 216 of the Companies Act were dismissed.


7 The Judge also found that Mr Tee’s conspiracy by unlawful means claim
succeeded only in respect of the five contracts that were found to have
been wrongfully diverted to YFX.


The court’s decision


8 The Court of Appeal held that the essence of a claim for relief under s
216 lies in upholding the commercial agreement between the shareholders of
the company, irrespective of whether the agreement is founded in the
company’s formal constitutional documents, in less formal shareholders’
agreements or, in the case of quasi-partnerships, in the legitimate
expectations of the shareholders: at [29].


9 The Court of Appeal applied the framework in

Ho Yew Kong v Sakae Holdings Ltd and other appeals and other matters

[2018] 2 SLR 333 to determine whether the s 216 claim was founded on a
personal or corporate wrong. This required the Court of Appeal to determine
what Mr Tee’s legitimate expectations were qua shareholder of
AFPL: at [40].


10 While the Court of Appeal adopted the Judge’s findings in respect of the
unchallenged terms of the informal understanding, the Court disagreed that
there was no agreement to close down YFX. Some degree of informality and
flexibility in arrangements was to be expected in quasi-partnerships: at
[44]-[46] and [54].


11 The Court of Appeal found that, by allowing YFX to continue to run
existing contracts and take on new ones after AFPL was incorporated up to
end April 2015, Mr Ng was preferring the interest of YFX over that of AFPL
and acting contrary to Mr Tee’s legitimate expectations. As the parties
reached an understanding in May 2015 that TFX need not be closed, the Court
of Appeal allowed Mr Tee’s appeal in respect of the contracts which YFX had
after AFPL’s incorporation up to end April 2015: at [58].


12 The Court of Appeal held that Mr Ng had a significant conflict of
interest when he caused AFPL to forgo the Gillenia and Stellar RV
contracts, especially given that he allowed YFX to profit from its
acquisition of the foregone contracts. This constituted both a breach of
his fiduciary duty to AFPL and a distinct personal wrong against Mr Tee.
The Court of Appeal also affirmed the Judge’s findings that the five AFPL
contracts from April to July 2016 were wrongfully diverted from AFPL to
YFX: at [65] and [69].


13 The Court of Appeal found that it was wrong for Mr Ng to make AFPL pay
YFX for the use of YFX’s workers while YFX made uncompensated use of AFPL’s
labour. This breach of duty went beyond being a corporate wrong, and was
oppressive to Mr Tee’s interests as a shareholder. The Court of Appeal also
upheld the Judge’s order for an inquiry into the exact extent of YFX’s use
of AFPL’s resources: at [75]-[76] and [79].


14 The Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge’s finding that, although Mr
Ng’s procurement of supporting quotations from YFX was improper, it was not
oppressive: at [89].


15 The Court of Appeal held that, considering the system of internal
controls that Mr Ng, Mr Tee and Mr Ching had agreed to implement, it was
oppressive for Mr Ng to remove Mr Tee as a bank signatory in June 2016: at
[92].


16 The Court of Appeal found that any failure to declare dividends could
not be attributed to Mr Ng and did not amount to oppressive conduct on his
part. It also found that no loan was made from AFPL to Mr Ng: at [98] and
[101].


17 The Court of Appeal ordered an inquiry into the damages payable to AFPL
by Mr Ng for acting in breach of his fiduciary duty to AFPL in diverting
its contracts to YFX and, in respect of the period from AFPL’s
incorporation up to end April 2015 for allowing YFX to remain in existence
and compete with AFPL, and for providing the use of AFPL’s resources and
manpower to YFX without fee. The said inquiry shall be conducted in this
action by Mr Tee but any damages found to be payable shall be paid by Mr Ng
to AFPL and shall constitute a debt to AFPL. The Court of Appeal left it to
the liquidators of AFPL to inquire as to any misconduct by YFX, Ms Kor or
Mr Ng against AFPL: at [110].


18 The Court of Appeal found that Mr Tee’s claim in unlawful means
conspiracy should not have been allowed as the conspiracy, if any, was
directed at AFPL, not Mr Tee. It was for the liquidators, on behalf of
AFPL, to investigate any allegations of unlawful means conspiracy: at
[112]-[113].


19 The Court of Appeal held that it was improper for counsel for Mr Ng and
YFX/Ms Kor to act for AFPL in CA 85, as a company in an oppression action
should be separately represented from the alleged oppressor: at [114].


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


