

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


28 February 2020


Case summary




China Machine New Energy Corp v Jaguar Energy Guatemala LLC and
anor



[2020] SGCA 12



Civil Appeal No 94 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):



Outcome: CoA dismisses appeal against High Court’s decision
declining to set aside arbitral award on grounds of breach of natural
justice.


 


Introduction


1 The appellant, China Machine New Energy Corporation (“CMNC”), sought to
set aside an arbitral award (“the Award”) on the basis that it was obtained
in breach of natural justice. CMNC’s case was that the arbitral tribunal’s
(“the Tribunal”) mismanagement of the arbitral proceedings – in particular,
its procedural decisions relating to the document production process and
the submission of expert evidence – resulted in its being denied a
reasonable opportunity of presenting its case.


Background


2 The parties went to arbitration over disputes relating to the
construction of a power generation plant in Guatemala (“the Plant”). The
appellant, CMNC, was the contractor, and the respondents, Jaguar Energy
Guatemala LLC and AEI Guatemala Jaguar Ltd (collectively, “Jaguar”), were
the owners of the Plant. The parties’ relationship was governed by an
Engineering, Procurement and Construction Contract (“the EPC Contract”),
under which CMNC was to construct the Plant for an approximate sum of
US$450m. In December 2013, after the works fell into delay, Jaguar
terminated the EPC Contract, and engaged other contractors to complete the
works.


3 In January 2014, Jaguar commenced arbitral proceedings against CMNC (“the
Arbitration”) under the EPC Contract, and claimed, amongst other reliefs,
the cost of completing the Plant (“the ETC Claim”). The substantive dispute
between the parties centred on the quantum of the ETC Claim, and the
parties’ preparations for the Arbitration focused on the production of
contracts, invoices and other supporting documents evidencing the costs of
completion, as well as the preparation of expert reports on the issue of
quantum.


4 Broadly speaking, the procedural issues raised in relation to the
production of documents fell into three categories. The first concerned
restrictions placed on the disclosure of sensitive documents, which, CMNC
submitted, had severely hindered its ability to assess and therefore
address Jaguar’s case on the quantum of Jaguar’s ETC Claim. In this regard,
Jaguar had sought to withhold disclosure of documents containing
information identifying its post-termination contractors on the basis that
CMNC might misuse that information to interfere with the ongoing work to
complete the Plant. In September 2014, the Tribunal ordered that the
sensitive documents be produced on an “attorneys’ eyes only” basis (“the
AEO Order”), meaning that sensitive documents would only be disclosed to
CMNC’s external counsel and expert witnesses, and not to its employees
(subject to CMNC’s right to apply for disclosure). This was superseded less
than a month later by the Redaction Ruling, under which Jaguar would
disclose the sensitive documents to CMNC’s employees, albeit with any
information identifying Jaguar’s contractors redacted. The Redaction Ruling
was itself subsequently modified by a procedural order relieving Jaguar of
the obligation to redact and disclose (to CMNC’s employees) documents
pertaining to claims with a value of less than US$100,000. These
restrictions (the AEO Order, as modified by the Redaction Ruling and the
subsequent procedural order) were subsequently lifted in March 2015;
sensitive documents were thereafter disclosed to CMNC’s employees without
restriction.


5 The second concerned CMNC’s access to project documents documenting the
work CMNC had completed before Jaguar’s termination of the EPC Contract
(“the Construction Documents”), which was necessary so that CMNC might
value the completed work, and thereby assess and challenge CMNC’s claim for
the cost of completing the work that remained uncompleted. According to
CMNC, it lost access to these documents after it was forced to leave the
work site following the termination of the EPC Contract.


6 The third concerned Jaguar’s rolling production of documents evidencing
the cost of completion (“the Costs Documents”). Over the course of the
Arbitration, Jaguar produced four tranches of documents corresponding to
four updates to the quantum of its ETC Claim. The first tranche of
documents was produced in February 2015, and the fourth and final tranche
was produced on 5 June 2015. In the present proceedings, CMNC challenged
both the propriety of allowing Jaguar to continually produce the documents,
as well as the manner in which they were produced. On the former point,
CMNC contended that the Tribunal’s failure to put an earlier stop to the
continual updates to the quantum of Jaguar’s ETC Claim resulted in CMNC not
having sufficient time to prepare its response. On the latter point, CMNC
argued that its difficulties were compounded by the disorganised and
haphazard manner in which the documents were produced.


7 According to CMNC, the Tribunal’s mismanagement of the Arbitration (in
the three aforementioned aspects) made it impossible for it to promptly
prepare and file critical lay and expert evidence addressing the quantum of
the ETC Claim. In particular, these difficulties meant that a key
responsive expert report prepared by CMNC’s quantum expert (“the Gurnham
Responsive Report”) was filed out of time, and was therefore not properly
considered by the Tribunal, in breach of CMNC’s right to be heard under Art
18 of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration (“the
Model Law”), rendering the Award liable to be set aside under, amongst
others, Art 34(2)(a)(ii) of the Model Law and s 24(b) of
the International Arbitration Act (Cap 143A, 2002 Rev Ed) (“IAA”).


8 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) dismissed CMNC’s application to set
aside the Award. The Judge rejected CMNC’s submission that the Tribunal’s
management of the process of document disclosure was a breach of CMNC’s
right to be heard, and held, in any case, that CMNC did not suffer any
prejudice that justified setting aside the Award.


The court’s decision 


9 The Court of Appeal dismissed CMNC’s appeal, and declined to set aside
the Award on grounds of breach of natural justice.


10 The Court observed that the right to be heard – which refers to each
party’s right to present its case and respond to the case against it – was
a fundamental rule of natural justice enshrined in Art 18 of the Model Law.
However, the Art 18 right to a “full opportunity” of presenting one’s case
was not an unlimited one, and was impliedly limited by considerations of
reasonableness and fairness. What constituted a “full opportunity” was a
contextual inquiry to be undertaken within the specific context of the
particular facts and circumstances of each case. The proper approach for
the court to take was to ask itself if what the tribunal did (or decided
not to do) falls within the range of what a reasonable and fair-minded
tribunal in those circumstances might have done. In undertaking this
exercise, the court must put itself in the shoes of the tribunal, and this
meant that (i) the tribunal’s decisions could only be assessed by reference
to what was known to and brought to the attention of the tribunal at the
material time, and (ii) the court would accord a margin of deference to the
tribunal in matters of procedure and would not intervene simply because it
might have done things differently (at [104]).


11 The Court dismissed CMNC’s contention that the Tribunal’s management of
the disclosure of sensitive documents was so unfair as to constitute a
breach of natural justice. The imposition of the AEO Order was not without
basis – on the evidence that had been placed before it, the Tribunal’s
conclusion that the possibility of misuse of the sensitive documents gave
rise to “serious concern” was an entirely reasonable one. The fact that the
AEO Order adversely affected CMNC’s ability to prepare its case was not
fatal to its legality – the AEO Order was intended by the Tribunal to
strike a balance between Jaguar’s interest in confidentiality and CMNC’s
interest in access for the preparation of its case, and necessarily
represented a compromise between Jaguar’s and CMNC’s interests. The Court
further noted that, in any case, any unfairness occasioned by the AEO Order
was substantially mitigated following the Redaction Ruling, under which
redacted versions of the sensitive documents were disclosed to CMNC’s
employees (at [111], [113] and    [116]).


12 The Court did not accept CMNC’s submission that it had been prejudiced
by the Tribunal’s failure to order Jaguar to disclose the Construction
Documents. First, CMNC never requested the production of the Construction
Documents for the purpose of preparing its case. Second, CMNC’s own filings
in the Arbitration suggested that it had been perfectly able to assess the
value of its pre-termination work with reasonable accuracy (at    [124] and [125]).


13 The Court rejected CMNC’s contention that the Tribunal had denied it its
right to be heard in relation to its belated submission of the Gurnham
Responsive Report. There was no basis to impeach the Tribunal’s decision to
allow Jaguar to continue producing the Costs Documents until 5 June 2015;
the Tribunal had accounted for CMNC’s interest in addressing those
documents by granting it an extension of time for the filing of the Gurnham
Responsive Report to 18 June 2015 in the exact terms sought by CMNC in its
request for relief. The Tribunal’s decision not to subsequently grant CMNC
a second extension of time was not unfair or unreasonable; there was
nothing unusual about the volume of the final tranche of documents produced
on 5 June 2015, and even if there were, CMNC ought to have raised its
request for an extension immediately after the documents were produced on 5
June 2015, but did not do so until some twelve days later, on the eve of
the deadline (at [131], [132],    [134], [140] and [141]).


14 The Court considered that the Tribunal’s direction that Jaguar    need not address the material belatedly filed by CMNC should be
distinguished from a direction that Jaguar must not do so. The
former direction left it open to Jaguar to deal with the material to the
extent it was able, and left it open to the Tribunal, in that light, to
consider the material and give it such weight as it deems appropriate. In
any case, even if the Tribunal’s direction could be read as a    de facto exclusion of the material belatedly filed by CMNC, such
an exclusion was well within the competence of the Tribunal to order, and
was not unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances (at    [148], [149] and [151]).


15 The Court found CMNC’s complaint that the Tribunal had failed to
consider the allegedly disorganised and haphazard production of the Costs
Documents in its management of the Arbitration to be without basis. In
assessing whether the Tribunal had acted unfairly, it was of crucial
importance that the court examine what exactly the Tribunal had been told
about the alleged difficulties that the complaining party faced. In this
regard, CMNC did not mention Jaguar’s allegedly disorganised and haphazard
production of documents in its requests to the Tribunal for extensions of
time for the filing of the Gurnham Responsive Report. It was not until
after the extended deadlines had lapsed that CMNC informed the Tribunal of
these alleged difficulties in its application to belatedly admit the
Gurnham Responsive Report (at [159]).


16 The Court rejected CMNC’s submission that the cumulative effect of the
Tribunal’s management of the Arbitration resulted in the Arbitration
becoming hopelessly and irretrievably lost. CMNC never said that it
considered the Arbitration irretrievably lost (or, alternatively, that the
scheduled evidentiary hearing could not proceed). On the contrary, CMNC
had, by its continued engagement as a party in the Arbitration,
consistently expressed its intention to forge ahead with the main
evidentiary hearing. If indeed CMNC had believed that proceeding with the
hearing in July 2015 was impossible, it was incumbent on CMNC to bring home
its concern to the Tribunal. Not only was this not done, CMNC persisted in
maintaining that it wished to press on with the July 2015 hearing. This put
the lie to CMNC’s submission that the Tribunal had conducted the
Arbitration in breach of its due process rights (at [165],     [171] and [172]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


