

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


25 February 2020


Case summary


TQU v TQT 
[2020] SGCA


Civil Appeal No 228 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Woo Bih Li):



Court of Appeal grants husband 75% of matrimonial assets instead of 25% as
ordered by the High Court


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· This was a long but unusual marriage as the marriage broke down 15 years
before interim judgment of divorce was granted, there was a negative value
in the Wife’s indirect contributions, and the Wife admitted that she made
no indirect contributions to the family after March 2010 (at [    5]).


· Any order of the court had to be workable and practical. The Judge’s
order required the parties to sell all their assets, including the homes.
In order to avoid disruption and expense arising from such an order, it was
appropriate to identify the matrimonial assets and their values so as to
make adjustments to take into account the retention of the homes (at [    27] and [28]).


· A negative value was ascribed to the Wife’s indirect contributions due to
her misconduct during the marriage in making numerous complaints about the
Husband and her evidence in a criminal trial that the court then rejected
(at [130] to [133]).


· An adverse inference was drawn against the Husband for not fully
disclosing matrimonial assets (at [137] to [    142]).


Background 


1 The appellant-husband (“the Husband”) and the respondent-wife (“the
Wife”) were married on 6 March 1990. They have three children together, a
daughter and two sons. The Husband worked as a doctor and set up a clinic
(“the Clinic”) in 1991, and the Wife quit her job to assist him in the
Clinic.


2 In 2001, the Wife left the matrimonial home and filed the first divorce
action. The action was dismissed in 2005, and the Wife moved back into the
family home for less than a year before she left the Husband again. The
daughter lived with the Husband while the two sons were shuttled between
the Husband and the Wife until 2010, when they moved back to live with the
Husband. The Wife filed a second divorce action in 2010, which was
dismissed in 2015. Less than two weeks later, she filed the third divorce
action, which led to the grant of interim judgment and the ancillary
matters proceeding in the High Court.


3 From 2001 onwards, the Wife also filed numerous complaints against the
Husband with the authorities, accusing him of corruption and other
offences. The criminal complaint culminated in a trial in the district
court, and the Husband was eventually acquitted of the offence after the
Wife’s evidence against him was rejected.


4 During the marriage, both parties acquired properties in Singapore and
overseas. According to the Husband, these assets were acquired with money
he received from his parents and were not matrimonial assets while
according to the Wife, they were acquired with income from the Clinic and
were matrimonial assets.


5 The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) found that all of the parties’ assets
were acquired with income from the Clinic and concluded that each party
should be entitled to 50% of the matrimonial assets. The Judge also drew an
adverse inference against the Husband for failing to shed light on the
assets and adjusted the ratio of division by 25% in favour of the Wife, to
reach a final ratio of 75:25 in favour of the Wife. As the parties had not
provided the Judge with current valuations of the assets, he was unable to
determine the total value of the matrimonial assets. The Judge ordered the
sale of all ascertainable assets with the sale proceeds to be divided in
the ratio of 75% to the Wife and 25% to the Husband.


6 The Husband filed an appeal against the Judge’s decision on the division
of matrimonial assets.


Decision 


7 The court allowed the Husband’s appeal. It applied the structured
approach set out in ANJ v ANK [2015] 4 SLR 1043 (“    ANJ v ANK”) and found that the ratio of parties’ contributions to
the marriage was 85:15 in favour of the Husband. This was after finding
that a negative value should be ascribed to the Wife’s indirect
contributions due to her misconduct during the marriage. However, as the
Husband had not fulfilled his duty of full and frank disclosure to the
court, the court drew an adverse inference against him and adjusted the
ratio of division by 10% in the Wife’s favour. The final ratio was 75:25 in
favour of the Husband (at [94], [135] and
[142]).


Reasons for the decision


8 This was a long marriage but the facts relating to the breakdown of the
marriage were unusual. First, it was undisputed that the marriage broke
down in 2001 but interim judgment of divorce was only granted in 2016.
Second, there was a negative value in the Wife’s indirect contributions to
the family. Third, the Wife herself acknowledged the absence of indirect
contribution from her to the family from March 2010 (at [5
]).


9 The Wife filed an application to review the Judge’s orders but had not
filed an appeal. Order 57 rule 9(A) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5,
2014 Rev Ed) did not permit the Wife to mount a backdoor appeal against the
decision of the Judge without following the proper procedure. Her
application was dismissed (at [18] and [    24]).


10 Any order of the court had to be workable and practical. A significant
portion of the matrimonial assets consisted of real property and the
Judge’s order placed the parties in the unenviable position of selling all
their assets, including the homes. In order to avoid disruption and
expense, it was necessary to identify the matrimonial assets and their
values so as to make adjustments to take into account the retention of the
homes. The values also provided an idea as to how much was involved in the
division exercise. This was especially pertinent if the Husband failed to
disclose matrimonial assets as the court might then take into account the
matrimonial assets disclosed to decide on the uplift to give to the Wife
(at [27] and [28]).


11 While marriage was an equal co-operative partnership of efforts, this
did not mean that the contributions of both parties in a marriage were
always equal. The court had to have regard to all the circumstances of the
case, including the extent of the contributions made by each party towards
acquiring matrimonial assets and to the welfare of the family. The
structured approach was set out in ANJ v ANK to recognise both
parties’ contributions to a marriage and could be applied in the present
case (at [30], [31] and [    32]).


12 Though the circumstances of the parties’ separation were unusual, there
was no principled reason to depart from the default operative date to
identify matrimonial assets, which was the date of interim judgment on 24
March 2016. There was also no reason to depart from the default date for
valuation of the matrimonial assets, which was the date of the first
ancillary matters hearing on 24 September 2018 (at [38]
and [41]).


13 The global methodology approach was applied alongside the    ANJ v ANK structured approach because there was insufficient
evidence to clearly differentiate between the properties. However, on a
general level, it was useful to discuss the properties according to the
time they were acquired in relation to the running of the Clinic because
the Wife alleged that the properties were acquired with income from the
Clinic (at [102] and [103]).


14 Applying the broad-brush approach, the ratio of the parties’ direct
contributions was 90:10 in favour of the Husband. Where assets were
acquired with income from the Clinic, a greater portion should be
attributed to the Husband as he was the resident doctor. Where assets were
acquired with gifts or inheritance from the Husband’s parents, it should be
attributed to the Husband. It was likely that the assets were acquired with
a combination of both the income from the Clinic and the Husband’s gifts
and inheritance from his parents as the parties had a large pool of
financial resources to draw on. As for properties that were acquired after
the Clinic shut down, the Husband should be credited for a far larger share
than the Wife as the Wife had filed multiple complaints against the Husband
that directly affected the Clinic’s business (at [111], [    112], [118] and [124]).


15 Applying the broad-brush approach, the ratio of the parties’ indirect
contributions was 80:20 in favour of the Husband. The Wife had left the
matrimonial home when the children were between three and eight years old,
and only lived with the family for brief periods thereafter. The daughter
lived with the Husband while the two sons spent more time with him. This
supported the Husband’s submission that he was mainly responsible for
caring for the children. (at [128], [129]
and [134]).


16 Also, where one spouse not only failed to contribute to the marriage,
but also engaged in conduct that fundamentally undermined the co-operative
partnership and harmed the welfare of the other, the court could ascribe a
negative value to his or her indirect contribution. The threshold is a high
one, and conduct must be both extreme and undisputed. The present case was
an unusual example of marital breakdown because of the extent of conflict
from 2001 onwards. The Wife filed numerous complaints against the Husband,
with at least one complaint culminating in a criminal trial. The Husband
was eventually acquitted of the charge. These acts amounted to harassment
and undermined the co-operative partnership that marriage is intended to be
(at [130], [131] and [    132]).


17 Assigning equal weight to direct and indirect contributions, the average
ratio was 80:15 in favour of the Husband. The structured approach did not
detract from the court’s power to draw an adverse inference against either
party where he or she was found to have failed to make full and frank
disclosure of the matrimonial assets. The present circumstances warranted
drawing an adverse inference against the Husband. For example, the Husband
failed to provide evidence of any returns he received upon disposal of the
properties. The court gave effect to that adverse inference by adjusting
the ratio of division by 10% in the Wife’s favour, to reach a final ratio
of 75:25 in favour of the Husband (at [137], [    138], [139] and [142]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


