

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


26 November 2019


Case summary



Harmonious Coretrades Pte Ltd v United Integrated Services Pte Ltd


[2019] SGCA 77



Civil Appeal No 126 of 2019


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Tay Yong Kwang):



Outcome: CoA gives its reasons for restoring a final garnishee
order which was set aside on the basis that the debt underlying the
garnishee order had been extinguished.


1 This was an appeal against the decision of a High Court Judge (“the
Judge”) to set aside a final garnishee order (“the Final Garnishee Order”).


Background to the appeal


2 The respondent, United Integrated Services Pte Ltd (“UIS”), was the main
contractor for a construction project. It engaged a third party, Civil Tech
Pte Ltd (“CTPL”), to carry out construction works for the project. CTPL in
turn engaged the appellant, Harmonious Coretrades Pte Ltd (“HCPL”), as its
sub-contractor: at [3].


3 On 31 August 2018, HCPL obtained against CTPL an adjudication
determination under the Building and Construction Industry Security of
Payment Act (Cap 30B, 2006 Rev Ed) (“the SOPA”). CTPL failed to make
payment. HCPL thus sought and obtained leave to enforce the adjudication
determination as a judgment of the court: at [4]-[    6].


4 HCPL then commenced garnishee proceedings against UIS, seeking an order
that all debts due from UIS to CTPL be attached to answer the debt owing
from CTPL to HCPL. At the hearing for the garnishee to show cause, UIS
informed the court that it had no objections to the garnishee application.
The provisional garnishee order was thus made final: at [7
]-[8].


5 UIS later formed the view that CTPL was insolvent and owed money to UIS,
instead of UIS owing money to CTPL. UIS eventually did not make payment on
the Final Garnishee Order. On 22 November 2018, UIS filed applications
against HCPL and CTPL, seeking a stay of enforcement of any adjudication
determinations and a stay of the Final Garnishee Order. UIS’ position was
that the Final Garnishee Order was premised on a debt owed by UIS to CTPL,
which arose from an adjudication determination rendered on 23 October 2018
(“AD1”). However, by virtue of a subsequent adjudication determination
rendered on 23 November 2018 (“AD2”), UIS no longer owed CTPL any debt.
Instead, the adjudicator in AD2 took into consideration the values
determined in AD1, and arrived at a finding that CTPL owed UIS
approximately $1.18m: at [10]-[13].


6 On 15 January 2019, HCPL, UIS and CTPL appeared before the Judge for the
hearing of UIS’ stay of enforcement applications. The Judge ordered a stay
of enforcement of AD1 by CTPL against UIS, unless CTPL obtains an order
setting aside AD2. The Judge did not order a stay of enforcement in
relation to the Final Garnishee Order. Upon the hearing of further
arguments, the Judge varied his order in relation to the stay of
enforcement of AD1 to an unconditional stay of enforcement. The Judge held
that as between UIS and CTPL, only AD2 was enforceable, as it had
superseded AD1. Further, there was clear and objective evidence that CTPL
was insolvent: at [15]-[19].


7 Shortly after AD2 was rendered, on 11 December 2018, UIS applied to set
aside the Final Garnishee Order. The assistant registrar dismissed UIS’
application. UIS appealed. The Judge allowed UIS’ appeal and set aside the
Final Garnishee Order. The Judge first noted that the court retained the
“residual discretion flowing from its inherent powers to prevent injustice”
to set aside any order of court. The essential touchstone to invoking the
court’s inherent powers was that of “need”. The Judge held that there was
such a need for three reasons: (a) as UIS had obtained a stay of
enforcement of AD1, the substratum of the Final Garnishee Order was held in
abeyance; (b) upholding the Final Garnishee Order could expose UIS to a
debt it may not even owe; and (c) as CTPL was insolvent, allowing the
enforcement of the Final Garnishee Order would unduly favour HCPL at the
expense of UIS should CTPL subsequently be wound up. HCPL appealed the
Judge’s decision to set aside the Final Garnishee Order: at [20]-[23] and [24]-[    25].


Decision on appeal


8 The Court of Appeal allowed HCPL’s appeal and restored the Final
Garnishee Order: at [28].


9 On the issue of the court’s power to set aside the Final Garnishee Order,
the Court of Appeal noted that there were at least three circumstances in
which a court may set aside a judgment or order of court. However, these
three circumstances were not exhaustive and the court retained a residual
discretion to set aside a judgment or court order. This flowed from the
court’s inherent powers to prevent injustice. The court’s inherent powers
are preserved by O 92 r 4 of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev
Ed). The Court of Appeal emphasised, however, that this is not a licence to
litigants to make frivolous applications to set aside judgments or court
orders. The Court of Appeal accepted that one situation where the court’s
inherent power could be invoked might be where the substratum of a court
order has been destroyed, such that the continued existence of the court
order would lead to injustice: at [34], [    36]-[37] and [40].


10 The Court of Appeal held that the essential touchstone for the
invocation of the court’s power was that of “need”. On the facts, the
grounds relied upon by the Judge did not constitute sufficient reason, or
caused such injustice, that the court had to invoke its inherent power to
set aside the Final Garnishee Order: at [43].


11 The Judge’s decision was premised upon the reasoning that AD2 had
superseded AD1, so that AD1 was no longer enforceable by CTPL against UIS.
This was not correct. Adjudication determinations do not supersede one
another but are each enforceable independently in their own right unless or
until impugned on the grounds as provided in the SOPA. It was not disputed
that AD1 was not impugned under any of the three grounds as provided in the
SOPA. Accordingly, AD1 was imbued with temporary finality and was binding
as between UIS and CTPL: at [44]-[45] and
[47].


12 The narrow question that remained was whether AD2 could nonetheless
impugn or supersede AD1. The Court of Appeal held that AD2 could have no
such effect for two reasons:


a. First, it would run counter to the legislative purpose behind the SOPA
to hold that parties could seek to rely on subsequent adjudication
determinations to impugn, set off, or otherwise diminish the enforceability
of an earlier adjudication determination. The legislative purpose of the
SOPA was to facilitate cash flow in the building and construction industry.
The adjudication process established under the SOPA was based on the idea
that parties to a construction contract should “pay now, argue later”. The
Judge’s reasoning that only the final adjudication determination between
parties is enforceable would run counter to this philosophy, and change it
to “pay only at the end”. The scheme of the SOPA is that even if the
upstream party has valid counter-claims against a downstream party, its
obligation is to pay up on an adjudication determination and pursue those
counter-claims later: at [48] and [52].


b. Second, AD2 did not, in itself, create a debt owing from CTPL to UIS.
Although the adjudicator in AD2 found that it was UIS that had a net claim
against CTPL for approximately $1.18m, that did not have the effect in law
of giving UIS a claim against CTPL for $1.18m. All that was decided under
AD2 was that UIS did not have to pay CTPL on that claim. The SOPA only
provides for a downstream party to apply for adjudication and an
adjudication determination cannot result in a downstream party paying an
upstream party. The net effect of AD1 and AD2 is that the sums owing under
AD1 still stand. It was thus inaccurate to say that UIS would be required
to pay a debt it did not owe if the Final Garnishee Order were enforced: at
[53]-[56].


13 The Court of Appeal also held that no injustice would be occasioned by
reason of CTPL’s insolvency. The consequence of upholding the Final
Garnishee Order would be that HCPL would have its claim against CTPL
satisfied in full whereas UIS would not be able to set-off its debt to CTPL
against claims that it might have against CTPL. However, this did not
warrant the setting aside of the Final Garnishee Order. The provisional
garnishee order was made final at the show cause hearing without objection.
Accordingly, as at that date, UIS was obligated to pay the garnished sum to
HCPL which had acted diligently in enforcing its claim against CTPL. The
Court of Appeal expressed no views on whether the Final Garnishee Order
would constitute a preferential discharge of HCPL’s claim against CTPL: at
[58], [60]-[62].



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


