

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


25 November 2019


Case summary



Red Star Marine Consultants Pte Ltd v Personal Representatives of
Satwant Kaur d/o Sardara Singh, deceased and another

 
[2019] SGCA 76


Civil Appeals No 15 of 2019


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice
Judith Prakash):



Outcome: Court of Appeal affirms the decision of the High Court to
dismiss a company’s claim against the estate of a former employee who
conspired with the managing director of the claimant company to defraud the
company.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


· Court of Appeal holds that the answer to the question whether the court
should attribute the knowledge of the fraudulent director to the company is
always to be found in consideration of the context and the purpose for
which the attribution is relevant.


1 The appellant, Red Star Marine Consultants Pte Ltd, is a company engaged
in the business of marine consultancy. Dhanvinder Singh s/o Karam Singh
(“Mr Singh”) and his wife, Ms Kathelene Wilhemina Rappa (“Ms Rappa”), are
the only directors and shareholders of the appellant. Mr Singh is the
managing director of the appellant. The first respondent (“the Estate”)
represents the estate of Satwant Kaur d/o Sardara Singh (“Ms Kaur”). Ms
Kaur was employed by the appellant from 2001 to 2012 as the personal
secretary of Mr Singh. The second respondent was a sister of the late Ms
Kaur.


2 Between 2006 and 2012, Ms Kaur obtained sums totalling S$1,633,875.20
from the appellant.
Ms Kaur utilised these moneys to purchase and/or pay the premiums for a
number of insurance policies on her own life. She also purchased properties
with these funds. On or about 5 September 2012, Ms Rappa discovered
incriminating documents belonging to Ms Kaur. On 15 September 2012, Mr
Singh lodged a police report alleging that Ms Kaur had misappropriated the
appellant’s moneys. In the course of investigations, Ms Kaur gave a total
of eight statements to the police, in which she admitted that she had taken
various sums of money from the appellant. However, she alleged that this
was with the consent and knowledge of Mr Singh.


3 Ms Kaur was eventually charged by the police in October 2014. In January
2016, she was granted a discharge not amounting to an acquittal. Not long
after, on 8 May 2016, Ms Kaur passed away from cancer. On 8 June 2016, the
appellant filed the present action against the Estate, claiming for losses
resulting from Ms Kaur’s alleged fraud, breach of trust, fiduciary duties
and/or duty of loyalty and fidelity. The appellant joined the second
respondent in the action on 29 May 2017, claiming that she had used money
from Ms Kaur to acquire several properties.


4 The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) dismissed the appellant’s claims
against the Estate and the second respondent on the principal ground that
Mr Singh was aware of and consented to Ms Kaur’s taking of moneys belonging
to the appellant. The Judge also held that the appellant’s claim against
the Estate was largely time-barred in any event. The Judge also dismissed
the appellant’s claim against the second respondent for knowing receipt on
the ground that such a claim must be premised on the existence of a breach
of trust or fiduciary duty and this had not been established as against Ms
Kaur.


5 The main issues on appeal were (1) whether Ms Kaur was privy to the
fraud; (2) whether Mr Singh was privy to the fraud; and (3) whether, in the
light of the answers to the first two issues, the appellant should be
allowed to recover from the Estate.


The Court’s decision 


6 On the first issue, the Court accepted that Ms Kaur was privy to the
fraud. Ms Kaur was unable to explain why Mr Singh had transferred large
sums of the appellant’s money to her. The purported explanations that Ms
Kaur gave to the police when they were investigating the fraud allegations
were unconvincing (at [17] to [23]).


7 On the second issue, the Court agreed with the Judge that Mr Singh was
privy to the fraud. The appellant was effectively a two-person operation
run by Mr Singh and Ms Kaur. Business at the company was brisk. Mr Singh
must have known the rates which the appellant charged for its services, and
thus he would have had in mind reasonable estimates as to the profits that
the appellant should have been earning. He could not have been unaware of
the fraud perpetrated against the appellant, especially when the
appellant’s accounts indicated that the appellant was earning only $10,000
to $20,000 a year in profits from 2006 to 2010. The appellant was not a
sprawling multi-million dollar company, and the amount drained out from the
appellant’s coffers were many times its profits (at [26]).


8 The third issue turned on the question of whether the appellant was
precluded, by the doctrine of illegality, from claiming against the Estate.
This in turn required the Court to determine whether Mr Singh’s acts and
knowledge should be attributed to the appellant. There are three distinct
rules of attribution:


a. First, the primary rules of attribution found in the company’s
constitution or in general company law, which vest certain powers in bodies
such as the board of directors or the shareholders acting as a whole.


b. Secondly, general rules of attribution comprising the principles of
agency which allow for liability in contract for the acts done by other
persons within their actual or ostensible scope of authority, and vicarious
liability in tort.


c. Thirdly, special rules of attribution fashioned by the court in
situations where a rule of law, either expressly or by implication,
excludes the attribution on the basis of the general principles of agency
or vicarious liability


9 The Court held that the primary rules of attribution are not engaged in
this case. There is a need for collective action of the board of directors
in managing the business of the company; such action may be manifested by
way of resolutions of the board of directors at meetings convened and
conducted in accordance with the company’s constitution or informal assent
of all directors of a company. In the present case, there is no evidence
that the payments to Ms Kaur were authorised by any resolution. And while
informal assent of all directors may suffice, there is no evidence that Ms
Rappa, who was then the only other director on the board of the appellant,
knew about and agreed to those payments. Indeed, it is inconceivable that
she would have agreed to a course of conduct that was so clearly against
her own interests. The Court also held that the general rules of
attribution are not relevant for the purposes of establishing an illegality
defence. This is because, for the defence of illegality to apply, the
appellant must itself be responsible for the wrong (at [36
]).


10 This case therefore concerned the special rules of attribution. The
Court reiterated that these rules are context-specific and their content
should be determined based on the language and purpose of the substantive
law upon which potential liability is to be established. There is no hard
and fast rule or even presumption that the knowledge or conduct of a sole
director or shareholder must be attributed to the company. Instead, the
Court must consider both the legal and factual context of the case (at [    37] to [41]).


11 The legal rule which is sought to be applied in relation to the company
is the defence of illegality. Thus, the Court must ask itself whether
allowing the appellant’s claim (which could only be done if Mr Singh’s
knowledge and acts were not attributed to the appellant) would be
consistent with the purpose of the defence of illegality. The Court held
that it would not. The appellant is essentially a one-man company run and
owned by Mr Singh. If the Court were to allow the appellant’s claim against
the Estate, Mr Singh would be, effectively, the sole beneficiary of the
claim whether by way of increased dividends or director’s fees or even the
lion’s share of the assets upon the appellant’s winding-up (if such should
occur). In other words, if the appeal were allowed, the Court would
effectively be assisting Mr Singh (who for all practical purposes owns all
of the shares in the appellant) to recover the fruits of his illegal
conspiracy with Ms Kaur to defraud the appellant of its moneys (at [    42] and [43]).


12 The Court also observed that the factual context of the present case is
different from the cases cited by the parties. Unlike in those cases, where
the companies in question were in liquidation and the liquidators were
suing the auditors on behalf of the unsecured creditors, the appellant is
still a going concern and Mr Singh is still very much in control of the
appellant. He is therefore in a position to benefit from his fraudulent
conduct should the appeal be allowed (at [44] to [    47]).


13 Accordingly, the Court attributed Mr Singh’s knowledge and acts relating
to the fraud to the appellant. The result was that the loss should lay
where it fell and the appellant was precluded from claiming against the
Estate and the second respondent. The appeal was therefore dismissed (at [    49]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


