




SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


19 November 2019


Case summary


Lim Chit Foo v Public Prosecutor 
[2019] SGCA 70


Criminal Motion No 9 of 2019



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Sundaresh Menon CJ):



Outcome: The Court of Appeal establishes that the statutory basis
for the standing down of pending charges is s 238 of the Criminal Procedure
Code.


Facts


1 The applicant faces multiple pending criminal charges in relation to his
alleged involvement in a large-scale fraudulent scheme perpetrated on the
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore, which involved in essence the
submission of false claims for the Productivity and Innovation Credit
Scheme. Half of these pending criminal charges are faced by the applicant
individually (“the individual charges”) whereas the remaining are faced by
the applicant together with two co-accused persons (“the joint charges”).
At the pre-trial stage, the Prosecution indicated that it wished to proceed
with the individual charges at one trial, and to proceed with the joint
charges at a separate trial after the disposal of the individual charges.
The Prosecution thus applied for the joint charges to be stood down for the
time being. The applicant objected to this course, and filed a criminal
motion for, among other things, leave to state a case directly to the Court
of Appeal on questions of law relating broadly to the legality of the
Attorney-General purporting to exercise his discretion to prosecute the
applicant’s multiple charges over the course of separate and consecutive
trials. At the hearing of the criminal motion, the issue centred on the
statutory basis for the practice of standing down charges, and the hearing
was adjourned for parties to tender further written submissions on this
issue.


Decision of the Court of Appeal


2 The standing down of charges generally refers to situations where an
accused person faces multiple charges, and a decision is made by the
Prosecution to proceed with some of these by way of a trial or in a plead
guilty mention, while the remaining charges are stood down or “put on
hold”, meaning that they are temporarily held in abeyance. The stood down
charges may later be taken into consideration for the purposes of
sentencing, they may be proceeded with in separate proceedings or they may
be withdrawn: (at [14]).


3 The statutory basis for the standing down of charges is 238 of the CPC,
which provides for the power of courts to postpone or adjourn proceedings.
Even though the Attorney-General has the constitutional power to initiate,
conduct and discontinue criminal proceedings, this refers to the discretion
to initiate, maintain and terminate criminal prosecutions. The
management of criminal proceedings as a whole, on the other hand, is
clearly a function and responsibility of the court: (at    [18], [22]).


4 The practice of standing down charges is to be properly situated within
the court’s duty to supervise and fairly manage criminal proceedings, and
not within the Prosecution’s discretion to conduct criminal prosecutions.
This is because the effect of charges being stood down is that they are
postponed with the specific intent that they will be heard or otherwise
disposed of at a later time. This necessarily means that there is an
adjournment of proceedings within the meaning of s 238 of the CPC. This
also follows from the fact that once charges have been brought before the
court, criminal proceedings are afoot in respect of those charges. It would
be wrong in principle to conceptualise the practice of standing down
charges as falling within the Prosecution’s discretion, as this would give
the Prosecution unfettered control over the conduct of criminal proceedings
before the court: (at [23], [24], [25]).


5 Where an accused person faces multiple pending charges and the
Prosecution applies for some of these charges to be stood down, the court
will not interfere with the decision of which charges are to be proceed
with and which are to be stood down. In the majority of cases where both
parties are agreed on a course of action, this should be given considerable
weight unless there is a real risk of injustice. But where the accused
person objects to the pending charges being stood down and contends that a
particular course gives rise to a risk of injustice, the Prosecution’s
application will then be subject to judicial scrutiny: (at    [30]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


