

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


19 November 2019


Case summary


Sim Tee Meng v Haw Wan Sin David and another
[2019] SGCA 71



Civil Appeal No 14 of 2019


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Judith
Prakash):



Outcome: Court of Appeal affirmed that a company’s Key Executive Officer
owed a personal duty of care to customers arising out of his interactions
with them, and was personally liable for representations he made to them.


Pertinent and significant points of the grounds of decision


· Where the questions to be dealt with in the appeal were not specifically
delineated in the order granting leave to appeal, the whole matter dealt
with in the court below could be re-ventilated in this Court (at [    31]).


· The finding that the appellant was personally liable for the
misrepresentations he made to the respondents notwithstanding that he was
acting as the Key Executive Officer of a limited company at the time was in
accordance with well-established principle (at [47]).


Background


1 This appeal raised the question as to the circumstances in which a Key
Executive Officer (“KEO”) and director of a limited company in business as
an estate agency can be found to be personally liable for representations
made to customers by him when such representations were made in the course
of his employment with the company and in order to promote the business of
the company.


2 The appellant was Sim Tee Meng (“Mr Sim” or “the appellant”). He was at
all material times the KEO of Faber Property Pte Ltd (“Faber”), a limited
liability company incorporated in Singapore. The respondents sued the
appellant, Faber and one Seah Beng Hoon (“Ms Seah”) for negligent
misrepresentation. Faber was and still is an estate agency licensed by the
Council of Estate Agencies. Ms Seah was an Associate Director of Faber and
a licensed real estate salesperson. The respondents pleaded that in
reliance on certain representations the defendants made to them, they had
entered into various agreements with a New Zealand company (“the
Developer”) for a “First Right of Refusal” (“FRR”) in respect of three
units in a residential housing project in New Zealand (“the Project”). The
Developer subsequently went into insolvent liquidation and the respondents
suffered loss as a result.


3 The District Judge (“the DJ”) found that only Faber was liable to the
respondents for negligent misrepresentation, and dismissed their claims
against the appellant and Ms Seah. The respondents then appealed against
part of the DJ’s decision. The High Court Judge (“the Judge”) allowed the
respondents’ appeal in respect of the appellant (Mr Sim), but dismissed
their appeal in respect of Ms Seah. The Judge thus found the appellant
jointly and severally liable with Faber to pay the respondents.


4 The appellant then sought and was granted leave to appeal to this Court
against the High Court’s decision. Before this Court, he argued that the
Judge erred in: (1) overturning the DJ’s factual finding that he did not
make the alleged representations; and (2) finding that he was personally
liable to the respondents for making those representations.


The Court’s decision


5 The Court made two preliminary points. First, unless the questions to be
dealt with in the appeal were specifically delineated in the order granting
leave to appeal, the whole matter dealt with in the court below could be
re-ventilated in this Court (at [31]). Second, whether an
appellate judge affirmed or reversed the findings of the court below after
scrutinising them and the evidence adduced before the court below, that
holding was the result of an analytical exercise and assessment and not an
exercise of discretion at all (at [32]).


6 The Court upheld the Judge’s finding of fact that the appellant had made
the alleged representations to the respondents (at [33]
and [34]).


7 As to the issue of whether a duty of care arose in tort, it was not
disputed that the preliminary requirement of factual foreseeability was
satisfied. The Court also agreed with the Judge that the requisite legal
proximity for the imposition of a duty of care on the appellant    vis-à-vis the respondents was present (at [36]).
First, when the respondents sought the appellant out, because as the KEO he
could be expected to know whether the necessary due diligence checks had
been conducted for the Project, and the appellant chose to make the
relevant representations knowing that the respondents were interested in
investing in the FRR scheme, the appellant assumed personal responsibility
for those representations. No disclaimer of responsibility was made by the
appellant (at [39]). Second, the respondents had relied on
the appellant’s representations when entering into the various agreements
with the Developer (at [41]). Moreover, there was no
policy consideration militating against imposing a duty of care on the
appellant. The finding that the appellant was personally liable for the
misrepresentations he made to the respondents notwithstanding that he was
acting as KEO of Faber at the time was in accordance with well-established
principle (at [47]).


8 Accordingly, the Court affirmed the Judge’s holding that the appellant
owed a personal duty of care to the respondents arising out of his
interactions with them. The Court also affirmed the Judge’s holding that
the appellant breached this duty of care by failing to make reasonable
checks before making the relevant representations, and that he was thus
personally liable to the respondents (at [48]).






This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


