

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


18 November 2019


Case summary



Yashwant Bajaj v Toru Ueda [2019] SGCA 69

Civil Appeal No 121 of 2018



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Senior Judge Chao Hick
Tin):



Outcome: CoA allows appeal and sets aside a statutory demand.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment:


The appeal was allowed and the statutory demand set aside on the basis that
the debts in the statutory demand had not accrued as of the date of that
demand as a result of the qualified nature of the values on which the debts
were based.


1 This was an appeal against the decision of the lower court dismissing the
Appellant’s application to set aside a statutory demand. The Court of
Appeal allowed the appeal, and set aside the statutory demand.


Background to the appeal


2 The parties were partners in a fund management business. They were the
sole directors and equal shareholders of Hachiman Capital Management
(“HCM”), which managed a hedge fund in Japan, known as the Hachiman Japan
Fund (“the Fund”). From 2004 to 2009, when the Fund was managed in Japan,
the business activities were conducted through TY Advisors Japan, a branch
of TY Advisors registered in Japan. The parties were directors and equal
shareholders in TY Advisors. From 2009 to 2011, they managed the Fund in
Singapore, and for that purpose, they incorporated in Singapore Hachiman
Capital Management Private Limited (“HCM Singapore”), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of HCM. In September 2010, the parties decided to close the
business of the Fund, and they entered into an agreement on the division of
the business assets. Unfortunately, they could not agree on some subsequent
transactions and business decisions as well as the nature and scope of
their agreement: [3]–[6].


3 The parties entered into a settlement agreement (the “Settlement
Agreement”) to settle their dispute. By the Settlement Agreement, the
parties agreed that a neutral evaluation of the assets by an independent
accountant (“the assessor”) be undertaken. The assessor was to “calculate
and populate” the entries in Tables X and Y attached to the Settlement
Agreement, in order to calculate the settlement amount to be paid by one
party to the other for the settlement of the dispute. It was also agreed
that the assessor’s calculations would be “final and binding”. Clause 6 of
the Settlement Agreement stipulated that both parties were to bear the fees
and expenses of the assessor and the Singapore Mediation Centre (“SMC”)
equally. Clause 10 of the Settlement Agreement further provided that the
Appellant was to pay the Respondent US$50,000 (the “Clause 10 Sum”). The
parties also signed a neutral evaluation agreement, by which they consented
to an assessor being appointed and they agreed to a “Documents-only Neutral
Evaluation” to be governed by the SMC Neutral Evaluation Rules (the
“Evaluation Rules”): [7] and [9].


Facts


4 The neutral evaluation process took place from 2015 to 2017. The assessor
released his report in November 2017 (the “Evaluation Report”). The long
delay in the process was due mostly, if not all, to the Appellant’s conduct
in not attending a clarification hearing, delaying the scheduling of a
meeting with the assessor, objecting to the Respondent’s submitted
documents and raising issues irrelevant to the evaluation process:    [10]–[19].


5 The assessor decided to issue a qualified opinion, because it was
apparent that any further attempts to get the parties’ agreement on the
underlying documents were futile. The assessor stated in his report that he
was unable to wholly carry out the terms of reference of his appointment
due to the various disagreements between the parties. He stated that he had
considered issuing an opinion based on the documents submitted by the
Respondent alone but was unable to do so because he felt it would be
inconsistent with the principle of natural justice. Thus, he gave a set of
values for Tables X and Y in his Evaluation Report that were “subject to
adjustments”, and a settlement amount payable from the Appellant to the
Respondent that was “subject to changes depending on adjustments that
[might] result from” (a) the parties reaching agreement on the disputed
documents, or (b) the parties agreeing to resolve the disputed documents by
appointing an independent auditor to perform an audit of the financial
statements of HCM. The Respondent had paid all the fees and expenses of the
assessor and the SMC to procure the release of the Evaluation Report:    [19]–[24].


6 Following the issuance of the Evaluation Report, the Respondent served a
statutory demand on the Appellant demanding payment of the settlement
amount, the Clause 10 Sum and the Appellant’s share of the fees under cl 6
of the Settlement Agreement (the “Clause 6 Sum”). The Appellant paid for
his share of the fees under cl 6 of the Settlement Agreement before the
hearing of the appeal. However, the Appellant challenged the settlement
amount and the Clause 10 Sum on the basis that the debts had not accrued:    [27], [40] and [50].


Decision on appeal


7 The question of whether the settlement amount that the assessor arrived
at was an accrued debt in turn depended on whether he had abided by his
terms of reference, and this was a matter of contractual interpretation of
the Settlement Agreement and the other terms agreed between the parties:
[56].


8 In the present case, to “calculate and populate” as provided in the
Settlement Agreement must necessarily mean to determine values with
certainty. It meant that the assessor had to reach a set of values for
Tables X and Y that was definite and settled, incorporating his
professional expertise. This construction was further buttressed by the
word “final” in the Settlement Agreement, which meant that the decision was
not to be subject to review. There needed to be a determination of the
calculations that was definite and settled, and in turn, a determination of
the settlement amount that was certain and not subject to review. The
requirement of a determination of a final settlement amount was consonant
with the objective intention of the parties in entering into the Settlement
Agreement in the first place – to resolve completely the dispute between
them by appointing an independent accountant to determine the values they
were unable to agree on: [60].


9 Further, looking at the wording of the terms of reference as encapsulated
in the neutral evaluation agreement and the Evaluation Rules, the court did
not find any indication of any objective intention of the parties to accept
a qualified set of calculations as “final”: [61].


10 Thus, the values in Tables X and Y in the Evaluation Report were not
calculations and populations falling under the Settlement Agreement,
because the values were subject to adjustments. The settlement amount that
the assessor stated was likewise not a calculation under the Settlement
Agreement. This was because the values might have to be adjusted and were
not final. Therefore, no settlement amount was due from the Appellant to
the Respondent. The statutory demand had to be set aside. The present
circumstances fell not only within r 98(2)(b) of the Bankruptcy
Rules (Cap 20, R 1, 2006 Rev Ed) for setting aside a statutory demand, but
also within r 98(2)(e) of the Bankruptcy Rules because no debt was
in fact due: [65] and [72].


11 The Court of Appeal agreed with the court below that the Appellant had
adopted delaying tactics during the evaluation process, in breach of his
contractual duty to cooperate. However, the Court of Appeal did not agree
with the court below that the statutory demand should not be set aside on
the principle that that a party in default under a contract cannot take
advantage of his own breach to gain a benefit or evade his contractual
obligation. It was ultimately the assessor’s decision to give a qualified
opinion, so the contractual benefit that the Appellant was asserting was
not a direct result of his breach of his duty to cooperate. The Appellant’s
breach of contract could not render valid an otherwise uncertain debt so as
to enable the alleged creditor to issue a statutory demand in respect
thereof: [73], [74],    [77] and [78].


12 As regards the Clause 10 sum, the Court of Appeal also held that there
were substantial grounds to dispute that it was due as a debt. Clause 17 of
the Settlement Agreement stated that “[a]ll payments arising from this
Settlement Agreement [were] to be made in the following manner from the
date of the Independent Accountant’s report...”. From the language of cl
17, it was clear that the Clause 10 Sum was tied to the Settlement Amount
such that one total final amount was to be paid by the paying party.
Another way of looking at the issue was that the Clause 10 Sum was not due
yet because there was no “Independent Accountant’s report” for the purposes
of the Settlement Agreement: [81].


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


