

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


15 November 2019


Case summary



Orion-One Development Pte Ltd (in liquidation) v Management Corporation
Strata Title Plan No 3556 (suing on behalf of itself and all subsidiary
proprietors of Northstar @ AMK) and another appeal

[2019] SGCA 66


Civil Appeals Nos 90 and 93 of 2019


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice
Andrew Phang Boon Leong):



Outcome: CoA holds that in determining whether a document
constitutes hearsay, the precise nature of the document cannot be ignored.
CoA also clarifies that depending on the contract in question, developers
are not necessarily liable for design omissions.


1 Both appeals arose from a dispute concerning a development known as
Northstar @ AMK (“the Building”), a nine-storey commercial building. The
management corporation of the Building (“the MCST”) brought an action
against both the developer of the Building (“Orion-One”) and the main
contractor (“Sanchoon”) in respect of a number of alleged defects.


2 The claim against Orion-One was brought on behalf of the subsidiary
proprietors (“SPs”) of strata title lots in the Building and alleged
various breaches by Orion-One of the sale and purchase agreements (“SPAs”)
between Orion-One and the SPs. The claim against Sanchoon was a claim in
tort which the MCST brought in its own capacity. The MCST also pursued a
claim in contract against Sanchoon based on alleged breaches of various
warranties given by Sanchoon to Orion-One and later assigned to the MCST
(“the Warranties”).


3 As the proceedings below were bifurcated, the High Court judge (“the
Judge”) had only to address the question of liability. The first half of
his decision covered the question of whether the MCST had the requisite    locus standi to bring its claim against Orion-One. It was common
ground that the MCST did not itself have locus standi to sue under
the SPAs and that it must be authorised by the SPs to do so. In this
context, the MCST initially tendered letters of authorisation (“LOAs”)
signed by various SPs. However, the Judge held that the LOAs which the SPs
signed were hearsay evidence because the SPs did not initially affirm or
swear affidavits, nor did they give oral evidence. Nevertheless, the Judge
subsequently granted the MCST leave to reopen its case and to file an
affidavit of evidence-in-chief for each participating SP, some of whom gave
oral evidence in court. The Judge placed great weight on the fact that, if
he had not done so, the MCST’s claim against Orion-One would fail entirely.


4 As for the substantive claims, it was common ground that Sanchoon owed
the MCST a duty of care in tort. The Judge held that Sanchoon could also in
principle be liable to the MCST in contract under the Warranties.
Ultimately, having regard to the evidence, the Judge allowed the MCST’s
claims against both Orion-One and Sanchoon in part. Dissatisfied, both
Orion-One and the MCST appealed. Sanchoon did not appeal against the
Judge’s decision.


5 The main issues on appeal were (1) whether the LOAs were hearsay; (2)
whether the Judge correctly exercised his discretion in allowing the MCST
to reopen its case; (3) whether the SPAs required Orion-One to construct
the common property of the Building with proper care and skill; (4) whether
Orion-One should be liable for design omissions; (5) whether the issue of
mitigation should have been left to the later tranche on the assessment of
damages; and (6) whether the Judge erred in rejecting some of the MCST’s
claims against Orion-One for defective work.


The Court’s decision 


6 On the first issue, the Court held that whilst the Judge’s finding that
the LOAs were hearsay appeared to be a compelling one, one cannot ignore
the precise nature of the LOAs themselves. The precise facts and
circumstances as well as the need to look to the substance (rather than the
mere form) of the documents concerned (here, the LOAs) are of the first
importance. The sole point of the document concerned in the
present case relates to the fact that the SP concerned had in fact
authorised the MCST to act on its behalf. Indeed, each LOA only states that
the undersigned SP authorises the MCST to sue on its behalf. Since
Orion-One had not objected tothe authenticity of the LOAs, itmust necessarily have accepted the    truth of the contents

of the LOAs since

those contents constituted the entire pith and marrow of the LOA –
put simply, the substance (content) and form of each LOA            coincided with each other and were two sides of the exact
same coin


. Therefore, having accepted that the form of each LOA was    authentic (ie, was properly executed), Orion-One
would necessarily

(and simultaneously) have (despite its vigorous objections based on
hearsay accepted its contents

as well
. In the circumstances, no issue of
hearsay arises. In the circumstances, to the extent that the Judge did not
allow the MCST to represent those SPs solely because of the absence of
fresh evidence, the Court reversed that decision. The Court emphasised that
its decision on this particular issue related, in the final analysis, to
one of application and did not in any way detract
from the general legal principle that the authenticity of a document and
the truth of its contents are two different things. (at [    13], [14] and [17]).


7 In the light of its decision on the first issue, it was strictly
unnecessary to consider whether the Judge correctly exercised his
discretion in allowing the MCST to reopen its case. However, the Court
considered this point as it was argued in some detail.


8 It is important to note that although the MCST filed its application to
reopen its case after both parties had closed their cases and the Judge had
reserved judgment, this was before decision was delivered. Further,
allowing the MCST to reopen its case raised only a single, narrow issue
relating to the MCST’s authority to represent the SPs. In particular, doing
so did not require the pleadings to be amended and did not require
discovery to be re-visited. In the light of these facts, the cases cited by
the parties could be distinguished (at [21] to [    24]).


9 Orion-One submitted that the Judge was wrong to hold that dismissing the
MCST’s application would result in a consequence which would be out of
proportion to the error: the MCST’s claim against Orion-One would fail in
its entirety. The MCST had sought recourse against Sanchoon for the same
defects and the extent of Sanchoon’s liability was similar to the extent of
Orion-One’s liability. Thus, Orion-One argued, even if the MCST’s claim
against Orion-One were dismissed in its entirety, the MCST would not be out
of pocket. The Court observed that while there was some force in this
submission, the miscarriage of justice would lie in the fact that Orion-One
would get off scot-free if the Judge had disallowed the application. This
would be unjust because there was no question that most of the SPs had
authorised the MCST to conduct litigation on their behalf (at [    25] and [26]).


10 On the third issue, the Court agreed with the Judge that the SPAs
required Orion-One to construct the common property of the Building with
proper care and skill. While Orion-One sought to draw a distinction between
“defective workmanship” on the one hand and constructing “according to the
Specifications” on the other hand in respect of common property, the Court
observed that the terms of the relevant clause (cl 10.1) of the SPAs did
not draw that distinction. Rather, cl 10.1 stated that the developer was to
build “the Unit, together with all common property of the Building, in a
good and workmanlike manner according to the Specifications and the plans
approved by the Commissioner of Building Control and other relevant
authorities”. Furthermore, it would not make sense for a developer to
escape liability for poor workmanship just because it might technically
have met the Specifications (at [31]).


11 The Court also found it inappropriate for Orion-One to rely so heavily
on the legal background to the promulgation of the SPAs (which are
statutorily prescribed) to draw that distinction because in interpreting
legislation, primacy should be accorded to the text of the provision and
its statutory context over any extraneous material. In addition, the
logical conclusion of Orion-One’s submission is that Parliament intended a
lower standard to apply to the construction of commercial properties as
compared to residential properties. The Court found this unlikely (at [    32]).


12 On the fourth issue, the Court held that Orion-One would be liable for
design defects only if, as a result of those defects, the Building was not
(pursuant to cl 10.1) constructed “in a good and workmanlike manner
according to the Specifications and the plans” approved by the relevant
authorities. Further, the design defects related to Orion-One’s    omission to install certain features. The Court
took the view that an omission to construct
because the feature was not included in the Specifications or the approved
plans (ie, a pure omission) cannot be fairly said to fall under
Orion-One’s

duty to construct in a good and workmanlike manner

. The Court further observed that the MCST’s real complaint was that the
Specifications or the approved plans were deficient. The Court was of the
view that it was not clear from the face of cl 10.1 that a developer such
as Orion-One is liable for deficient Specifications or plans. Instead, cl
10.1 obliged Orion-One to construct    in accordance with those requirements. Further,
it was open to the SPs or the MCST to claim against the architects or
engineers for any shortcomings in the preparation of the Specifications or
plans. There was therefore no reason for the Court to strain the clear
language of cl 10.1 and interpret it in a manner which renders developers
liable for design omissions. Accordingly, Orion-One’s appeal was allowed in
respect of design omissions (at [37] to [    40]).


13 On the fifth issue, the Court agreed with Orion-One that the issue of
mitigation should have been left to the later tranche on the assessment of
damages, given that the trial was bifurcated. The Court observed that
mitigation is a doctrine that is applied to restrict the damages recovered
in compensation for losses incurred as a result of a breach of contract.
Orion-One’s appeal was allowed in respect of this issue. The Court thus
clarified that the Judge’s findings on mitigation were not final (at [    41]).


14 On the sixth issue, the Court agreed with the Judge’s findings and
dismissed the MCST’s appeal on the various alleged defects. In particular,
the MCST failed to establish that the defects were caused by poor
workmanship. Some of the alleged defects were also found in parts of the
Building that were not common property (at [43] to [    49]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


