

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


15 November 2019


Case summary



Adinop Co Ltd v Rovithai Limited and DSM Singapore Industrial Pte Ltd

[2019] SGCA 67


Civil Appeal No 108 of 2018



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice Belinda Ang Saw
Ean):



Outcome: CoA allows appeal in part against the HC’s decision that
the first respondent did not breach its duty of confidence owed to the
appellant in relation to certain confidential information.


Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· CoA clarifies the difference between duty of confidence in contract and
in equity.


1 This was an appeal against the decision of the High Court in HC/S
1267/2015.


 


Background


2 From sometime around the 1990s until mid-2014, the appellant (Adinop Co
Ltd (“Adinop”)) was the first respondent’s (Rovithai Limited (“Rovithai”))
distributor in Thailand for “standard DSM products”. Rovithai and the
second respondent (DSM Singapore Industrial Pte Ltd (“DSM Singapore”)) are
part of the DSM Group of companies (“DSM Group”), a multi-national group
active in research, development, manufacture and sale of ingredients for
feed, food, pharmaceutics and cosmetics. Standard DSM products are
essentially the respondents’ human nutrition and health ingredients for the
food and beverage industry in Thailand.


3 The information at issue in this appeal relates to two documents which
Adinop shared with the first respondent that contained, amongst other
things, the identities of Adinop’s customers who were purchasing or were
intending to purchase standard DSM products. The two documents in question
are called the “Key Customers List” and the “Ongoing Projects List”. In
this case summary, “Customer Information” refers to the customer
information contained in the said documents. The two documents will
collectively be referred to as “the Lists”.


4 Adinop sued the respondents for breach of a Confidentiality Agreement
signed between them on 22 October 2013. The complaint is that the
respondents had misused the Customer Information in the Lists to notify
Adinop’s customers of the change of distributor from Adinop to a new
distributor, Rama Production Co Ltd (“Rama”) on 1 July 2014 (“the Notice”).
On the same complaint, Adinop sued the respondents, in the alternative, for
breach of their obligations of confidentiality arising in equity in
relation to the misuse of the Customer Information. Adinop was unsuccessful
in its claims against both respondents in the High Court and now appeals
against that decision.


Decision on appeal


5 The legal framework within which the duty of confidence falls to be
decided where such duty arises from a contract between the parties is
distinct from the legal framework within which the duty of confidence
arises in equity. It is important not to conflate the two types of duty of
confidence at the outset. Confidentiality obligations arising out of a
contract do not necessarily bear the same contours as obligations of
confidentiality in equity. However, in circumstances where it is determined
that the scope of the confidentiality obligation owed in contract and in
equity are the same, liability in both contact and in equity may be
established (at [37]).


6 When there is a confidentiality agreement between the parties, as in this
case, the confidentiality provisions as expressed in that agreement will
primarily determine the existence and scope of the contractual obligations
owed by the parties. The court will construe the express terms of the
confidentiality agreement, applying the usual principles of contractual
interpretation, to determine the extent of the confidentiality obligations.
Plainly, by the express terms in a confidentiality agreement, the parties
may simply agree that certain information disclosed between them are not to
be used. In this situation, the parties would have agreed to treat that
information as confidential even though, on an analysis of equitable
principles, the information may not have the necessary quality of
confidentiality (at [38] and [40]).


7 Where there is a stipulated contractual duty of confidence, the court
will not, ordinarily, impose additional or more extensive obligation of
confidentiality in equity. However, there are occasions when equity may
step in to impose a duty of confidence, where, for instance, “the contract
does not necessarily assuage conscience, and equity may yet give force to
conscience” (at [40]).


8 On the other hand, a duty of confidence can also arise in the absence of
a contractual relationship or if there is no express contractual
stipulation of confidentiality. Equity may impose a duty of confidence
whenever a person receives information possessing the necessary quality of
confidence in circumstances importing an obligation of confidentiality (at
[41]).


Contractual duty of confidence


9 The Confidentiality Agreement in this case provides a framework for
determining whether information disclosed between Adinop and Rovithai
during the confidentiality period constitutes confidential information. If
it constitutes confidential information, the Confidentiality Agreement
limits Adinop’s and Rovithai’s use and treatment of that information except
in certain prescribed circumstances (at [44]).


10 CoA held that the Customer Information constituted Confidential
Information as defined under the Confidentiality Agreement. For a
distributor like Adinop, its list of customers matched against detailed
information derived from business dealings with these customers is a core
aspect of its business and is without doubt of value to a distributor like
Adinop. It represents the distributor’s market reach and important
clientele. The Lists created in this way would constitute “proprietary
information” that was “developed” by Adinop and that such information
possessed by Adinop related to Adinop’s business, thus falling within the
meaning of Confidential Information under the Confidentiality Agreement.
Furthermore, none of the information in the Lists are in the public domain.
Since both the Key Customers List and Ongoing Projects List contained
confidentiality marking (as is required under the Confidentiality
Agreement), the use of the information in these documents (ie., the
Customer Information) are subjected to the restrictions under the
Confidentiality Agreement. (at [57], [59]
and [61]).


11 As for whether Rovithai used the Customer Information, Rovithai’s
issuance of the Notice is prima facie evidence of use and breach
of the Confidentiality Agreement. The evidential burden therefore shifted
to Rovithai to disprove use and it failed to discharge this burden. Adinop
has on the balance of probabilities, shown that Rovithai had used the
identities of the customers in the Lists to send out the Notice. Rovithai,
on the other hand, did not adduce any evidence to show that it did not use
the Lists but in fact used its own list of customers and/or the lists given
to it by Rama (at [69], [77] to [    79]).


12 Finally, on Rovithai’s misuse of the Customer Information in breach of
the Confidentiality Agreement, the CoA finds that “Purpose” for which
Confidential Information could be used as defined under the Confidentiality
Agreement could only mean a purpose which would advance the distributorship
arrangement, not one which involved or would facilitate the change to a new
distributor. In the present case, the Lists were requested by Rovithai for
the purpose of assisting “[Adinop] in marketing efforts to maintain and/or
grow the customer base”. The use of the Lists to notify Adinop’s customers
of the termination of the distributorship arrangement with Adinop was not a
Purpose for which Confidential Information was disclosed pursuant to the
Confidentiality Agreement (at [80], [82]
and [83]).


Equitable obligations of confidence


13 The CoA finds that Rovithai is bound by a duty of confidence in equity
having applied the principles of good faith and conscience. Any reasonable
person in the position of Rovithai would have known on reasonable grounds
that the information was confidential and given to it in confidence. Here,
the Lists were disclosed by Adinop at the request of Rovithai. Rovithai had
informed Adinop that the documents would be used in order for Rovithai to
support Adinop as distributor under the distributorship arrangement.
Rovithai’s conscience was therefore bound in that it could not use the
Customer Information for purposes other than the stated purpose for which
it was requested in the first place (at [87] to [    89]).


14 Having found that Rovithai did use the Customer Information to send out
the Notice, the CoA finds that Rovithai’s use of the information was
unauthorised. First, the identities of Adinop’s customers in the Lists
formed the most material part of the documents having regard to the make-up
and purpose of the Lists, which was to, inter alia, profile Adinop’s key
customers. Without the names, there was no way for Rovithai to know who
Adinop’s key customers were and what products those customers purchased in
order to grow DSM’s market share. The Notice was targeted at important
customers to retain their business. Second, unauthorised use can be
properly inferred. Rovithai had used the Customer Information for issuing
the Notice and that was a use of the information not contemplated by Adinop
when it disclosed that information to Rovithai. Third, there is no implicit
authority given by Adinop to Rovithai for Rovithai to use the information
to facilitate the termination of their distributorship arrangement. Fourth,
Rovithai had no legitimate interest to send out the Notice (at [    93] to [99]).


15 Finally, the Notice was to Adinop’s detriment. Following the issuance of
the Notice, five of Adinop’s customers who had placed orders for DSM
products prior to the Notice were cancelled (at [100]).


DSM Singapore’s involvement


16 The CoA finds that there was insufficient evidence to show that DSM
Singapore was involved in the sending out of the Notice and dismissed
Adinop’s appeal on this point (at [101]).


Damages to be assessed


17 Being a bifurcated trial, the CoA orders that the case be remitted to
the High Court for damages to be assessed (at [104]).


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


