

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


15 November 2019


Case summary



MCH International Pte Ltd and others v YG Group Pte Ltd and others and
other appeals

[2019] SGCA 68


Civil Appeals Nos 65, 67 and 68 of 2019


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Justice
Andrew Phang Boon Leong):



Outcome: Court of Appeal dismisses majority of appeal by an investor and
associated parties and allows investor’s joint-venture partner’s
cross-appeal in part. The Court outlines the principles governing the
admissibility of subsequent conduct and the relevance of commercial context
in contractual interpretation.


Facts


1 Sometime in 2014 and early 2015, Mr Simon Liong Chung Yee (“Mr Liong”)
and Mr Henry Wong Kok Hwee (“Mr Wong”) embarked on a joint venture project
to acquire four cold chain logistics companies in China (the “Target
Companies”) and incorporated YG Group Pte Ltd (“YGG”) for this purpose.
YGG’s shareholding was divided between YG Logistics Pte Ltd (“YGL”) and MCH
International Pte Ltd (“MCH”). The former’s majority shareholding traces
back to Mr Liong, while the latter’s majority shareholding was held by Mr
Wong.


2 On 29 January 2015, the parties entered into several agreements,
including a Deed of Undertakings (“DOU”). At this time, the parties had
envisaged an initial acquisition model whereby they would have full control
of the Target Companies. Under the DOU, Mr Wong undertook to hire industry
veterans in the logistics business (“the Core Management Team”) and second
them to YGG “from the completion of the Acquisition”.


3 In August 2015, the parties adopted a revised acquisition model. YGG
acquired a 40% stake in the Target Companies for US$4.4m and was granted a
“Purchaser’s Call Option” to purchase the remaining 60% stake, with the
option to be exercised within 12 months. The parties amended their written
agreements, but no amendment was made to the DOU. YGL also extended MCH a
loan of S$4.5m (“the Amended Loan Agreement”) to finance Mr Wong’s share of
the initial 40% purchase. Mr Wong and his wife, Mrs Wong, issued personal
guarantees for this loan.


4 Unbeknownst to Mr Liong, Mr Wong obtained a commission of US$300,000 for
facilitating YGG’s purchase of the 40% stake of the Target Companies from
the Vendors. Further, in February 2016, Mr Wong’s associates, Mr Troy
Shortell and Mr Paraj Kakkar conducted negotiations with Yang Kee Logistics
Pte Ltd (“YKL”) for the latter to acquire all the shares in the Target
Companies. YKL made two offers. The second offer was to purchase the Target
Companies for US$15.5m. Neither of the offers was disclosed to Mr Liong.


5 The relationship between the parties deteriorated:


(i) Mr Liong alleged that Mr Wong had failed to fulfil his obligations to
hire and second the Core Management Team to YGG and was delaying the
exercise of the Purchaser’s Call Option. YGL launched Suit No 104 of 2016
(“Suit 104”) against Mr Wong and MCH for breaches of the DOU;


(ii) YGL commenced Suit No 337 of 2016 (“Suit 337”) against MCH, Mr Wong,
and Mrs Wong. Under the Amended Loan Agreement, a breach of the Amended
August Agreements or of the DOU would be an “Event of Default” entitling
YGL to seek repayment of the principal sum and interest on the loan. Mr
Wong and MCH counterclaimed for lawful and unlawful conspiracy; and


(iii) YGG commenced Suit No 80 of 2017 (“Suit 80”) alleging breach of
fiduciary duties by Mr Wong (flowing from, among other things, his
undisclosed commission). In turn, MCH, Mr Wong and Mrs Wong commenced Suit
No 107 of 2017 (“Suit 107”) alleging that YGG, YGL, Mr Liong and associated
parties had engaged in tortious conspiracy and sought an order to wind up
YGG.


 


Background to the appeals


6 The High Court judge (“the Judge”) found largely in favour of Mr Liong,
YGG and YGL. Mr Wong breached his undertaking in the DOU. She dismissed
MCH’s and Mr Wong’s counterclaims in Suit 337 and MCH’s, Mr Wong’s and Mrs
Wong’s claims in Suit 107.


7 Civil Appeal No 65 of 2019 (“CA 65”) is MCH’s, Mr Wong’s, and Mrs Wong’s
appeal against the Judge’s findings against them. Civil Appeal No 67 of
2019 (“CA 67”) is YGG’s appeal to increase the award in respect of the loss
of a chance claim arising from the YKL offer. Civil Appeal No 68 of 2019
(“CA 68”) is YGL’s appeal to increase the award of normal and default
interest pertaining to the breach of the Amended Loan Agreement.


Decision on appeal


(i) CA 65


8 The Court of Appeal affirmed the Judge’s finding in Suit 104 that Mr Wong
had breached his undertaking under the DOU. The Court considered that in
the event that subsequent conduct was to be admitted it had to be: (a)
relevant, reasonably available, and relate to a clear and obvious context;
(b) the principle of objectively ascertaining intentions remained
paramount; and (c) the subsequent conduct must go toward proof of what the
parties objectively agreed on. In this regard, the Judge had not erred in
considering Mr Wong’s subsequent conduct as it was relevant, reasonably
available, and related to a clear and obvious context. Mr Wong had actively
given reasons to justify the delay, and this implicitly warranted that he
was bound by an obligation under the DOU (at [14],    [18]–[19]).


9 The Court acknowledged however, that this view was contingent on it
expressing a definitive view as to the admissibility of subsequent conduct
in contractual interpretation. The Court observed that evidence of
subsequent conduct generally fell into two categories – it was either
inadmissible because it did not fulfil the relevant criteria, or it was
superfluous because it would echo the contextual evidence at the time of
the contract. The was a case of the latter, as the objectively ascertained
intentions of the parties at the time of the contract meant that the Judge
did not even need to rely on subsequent conduct to find Mr Wong liable
under the DOU. The Judge’s finding was affirmed, albeit on different
grounds (at [20]–[21] and    [29]).


10 In Suit 337, the Judge found seven Events of Default under the Amended
Loan Agreement. Event of Default 2 concerned clause 12.1(e) of the Amended
Loan Agreement, which was breached if any legal proceedings were instituted
against MCH. The Judge found that Suit 104 (which YGL had instituted
against MCH) triggered clause 12.1(e). On appeal, MCH asserted that clause
12.1(e) only referred to suits launched by third parties (at    [31]–[33]).


11 The Court observed that: (a) terms must always be interpreted in their
internal context, which applied a fortiori for the sentence or
paragraph in question; (b) too rigid and formalistic an approach to
interpretation may lead to commercially insensible results; (c) the
commercial purpose of the Amended Loan Agreement was already fulfilled by
allowing YGL to recall the loan if MCH had a third-party dispute; and (d)
avoiding a commercially insensible outcome is a factor that the court may
give succour to in its task of contractual interpretation (at    [36]–[41]).


12 The Court found that the Judge erred in her interpretation and clause
12.1(e) was limited to third party proceedings. As such, YGL was not
entitled to rely on the clause as a basis to recall its loan. The Court
reversed the Judge’s finding that MCH was liable under Event of Default 2.
This did not mean however, that the instituting of proceedings against MCH
in Suit 104 was commenced mala fides. As Event of Default 5 (MCH’s
refusal to amend YGG’s Articles of Association) was established, the Court
dismissed the remainder of the MCH’s, Mr Wong’s and Mrs Wong’s appeals in
relation to Suit 337 (at [42], [45],    [51] and [54]).


13 In Suit 80, the Judge found that there were six breaches of duty by Mr
Wong. These findings were upheld by the Court which held that Mr Wong’s
breaches were blatant and wilful. There was also no reason to disturb the
Judge’s awards in relation to the same (at [81]).


(ii) CA 67


14 The Court affirmed the Judge’s finding of the likelihood of the second
YKL offer materialising to be 12.5%. The Judge had carefully considered the
relevant facts in arriving at her decision. It was inappropriate to rely
heavily on the decision in

Asia Hotel Investments Ltd v Starwood Asia Pacific Management Pte Ltd
and another

[2007] SGHC 50 (“Asia Hotel”). Asia Hotel did not purport
to lay out a general approach to assessing loss of chance. Moreover, the
nature of the property in Asia Hotel was quite different from the
present case (at [88]-[91]).


(iii) CA 68


15 The Court held that YGL was not entitled to normal interest in addition
to default interest. The objectively ascertained intentions of the parties
was that default interest would be calculated to already include normal
interest (at [59] and [63]).


16 YGL submitted that the wrong interest rate and reference date had been
used in its pleadings on default interest. The Court accepted that there
was a calculation error. Although this was a new point on appeal, the Court
considered that the new point related merely to the construction of a
document which required no fresh evidence or a review of the factual
matrix. No prejudice was caused to MCH in allowing this point to be raised.
The Court therefore rectified the calculation of default interest to run
from Event of Default 5 to the date of the writ, which would amount to
$40,000 (at [52]–[53] and    [68]–[71]).


17 YGL also submitted that the Amended Loan Agreement provided that default
interest would run both before and after judgment. The Court observed that
while this was not drawn to the Judge’s attention, this concerned a plain
text reading of the Amended Loan Agreement. In this regard, MCH had also
conceded that under the Amended Loan Agreement default interest would run
till the date of payment (at [66],and    [73]–[75]).


18 The Court rejected MCH’s submission that awarding YGL default interest
until the date of payment was awarding interest upon interest under section
12(2)(a) of the Civil Law Act (Cap 43, 1999 Rev Ed) as this
concerned the period during which default interest was contracted to run.
In any event, YGL could avail itself of section 12(2)(b) as the
basis of its claim for default interest was pursuant to an agreement. The
Court allowed the appeal in part and determined that default interest
should accrue until the date of payment, but noted that these were matters
that YGL could have alerted the Judge to. Even if new points were
ultimately entertained on appeal, there may be sanctions in the form of
appropriate cost orders (at [77]–[79]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
judgment. It is not intended to be a substitute for the reasons of the
Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets refer to the
corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s judgment.


