

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


27 September 2019


Case summary




Suntech Power Investment Pte Ltd v Power Solar System Co Ltd (in
liquidation)




[2019] SGCA 52



Civil Appeal No 109 of 2018 (Summons No 58 of 2019)



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Andrew
Phang Boon Leong):

Outcome: CoA imposes unless order to the effect that unless the appellant pays into court by the stipulated deadline the value of a key asset which it dissipated in breach of a Mareva injunction, its appeal would be struck out as an abuse of the process of the court. [By way of a Postscript, as the appellant did not do so by 7 August 2019, the said appeal was automatically struck out as an abuse of the process of the court.] 
Pertinent and significant points of the judgment: 


Where a party can show that the other party has been and continues to be in contumelious breach of a court order, it would be reasonable and logical for the court, especially when the latter party has already been held to be in contempt of court for breaching the said court order, to find that such conduct evidences that party’s lack of genuine or bona fide interest in obtaining the reliefs it is seeking from instituting legal proceedings: at [51]. 


In determining whether a court order has been complied with, the court will scrutinise the language and the spirit of the court order. Where there is purported compliance by way of acts which do not comport with what the court order was intended to achieve in the first place, such acts would not suffice and the party concerned would continue to be in contumelious breach of the court order. The result of such continued legal recalcitrance will almost invariably be severe: at [2] and [52]. 




Background to the appeal

1 The respondent is a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands
and wholly owned by Suntech Power Holdings Co Ltd (“SPH”), a company
incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The respondent operated as an
investment holding company, whereas SPH was a solar panel producer. SPH was
the ultimate holding company for multiple subsidiaries and affiliated
companies (collectively, “the SPH Group”).


2 The appellant is a company incorporated in Singapore and was previously
part of the SPH Group. It operated as an investment holding company engaged
in equity investments. Between 8 October 2007 and 15 May 2013, the
appellant was a wholly-owned subsidiary of the respondent. Thereafter, the
respondent transferred its ownership of the appellant to another company.
The appellant is now no longer part of the SPH Group nor a subsidiary of
the respondent.


3 Prior to the breaking up of the SPH Group, the respondent had entered
into a number of transactions with the appellant. Those transactions formed
the basis of the respondent’s claims against the appellant in Suit No 59 of
2014 (“the Suit”), which was for a total sum of US$197,501,785. The
respondent’s claims were for: (a) the amount due under three loans made by
the respondent to the appellant which were repayable on demand; and (b) the
purchase price of US$55.56m which was allegedly payable by the appellant to
the respondent under a share transfer agreement between them dated 8 August
2008 (“the Share Price claim”).


4 The share transfer agreement in question in the Share Price claim was an
agreement for the sum of US$55.56m to be paid by the appellant to the
respondent for the appellant’s purchase of the respondent’s 100%
shareholding in Suntech Power Co Ltd (“Shanghai Suntech”). Pursuant to this
share transfer agreement, the appellant became the sole shareholder of
Shanghai Suntech.


5 Pending the trial of the Suit, the respondent discovered that the
appellant had sold its shares in four of its subsidiaries and suspected
that the appellant was attempting to dispose of its shareholdings in two of
its other subsidiaries. The respondent then filed a summons in the Suit
seeking a worldwide Mareva injunction against the appellant (“the Mareva
injunction”). This was granted on 4 September 2014. The Mareva injunction
contained the usual orders. Among other things, it: (a) prohibited the
appellant from disposing of any of its assets, including (among other
assets) its shares in Shanghai Suntech; (b) required the appellant to file
an affidavit disclosing all of its assets and their value, location and
details (“disclosure of assets affidavit”); and (c) required the appellant
to inform the respondent whenever it dealt with or disposed of any of its
assets in the ordinary and proper course of business.


6 The trial for the Suit was held from 14 to 17 May 2018, and on 5 July
2018, the High Court judge (“the Judge”) gave judgment for the respondent
for the sum of US$197,501,785. The appellant filed its notice of appeal (    viz, Civil Appeal No 109 of 2018 (“CA 109/2018”)) the next day.
The respondent then applied to convert the Mareva injunction to a
post-judgment Mareva injunction to aid the enforcement of the judgment.
This was granted in December 2018.


7 As at late 2018, the appellant had yet to file the disclosure of assets
affidavit required under the Mareva injunction even though more than four
years had passed by then since the injunction was imposed. The respondent
also discovered that the appellant had breached the Mareva injunction by
disposing of its shares in Shanghai Suntech for a mere RMB2 in September
2018 and by disposing of two of its other subsidiaries.


8 The respondent then commenced committal proceedings against the
appellant. The Judge found the appellant to be in contempt of court for
committing the aforesaid breaches of the Mareva injunction. She ordered the
appellant to: (a) pay a fine of S$100,000; (b) pay into court a sum of
S$100,000 to secure its compliance with the Mareva injunction; and (c) pay
the respondent the costs of the committal proceedings as well as the costs
incidental to and also of the issue and execution of the committal order
(“the Contempt Order”). The appellant did not comply with the Contempt
Order and a number of costs orders made against it in the Suit.


9 The respondent then filed Summons No 58 of 2019 (“SUM 58”) for an unless
order to the effect that unless the appellant paid into court the judgment
sum awarded to the respondent in the Suit as well as complied with a number
of other orders made by the Judge, its appeal in CA 109/2018 would be
dismissed or, alternatively, stayed without further order. SUM 58 was
subsequently amended, pursuant to leave granted by the Court of Appeal
(“the CoA”), to include a prayer that CA 109/2018 be struck out because it
was an abuse of the court’s process.


 


The CoA’s decision


10 The CoA has the inherent jurisdiction to strike out a notice of appeal
where the appeal is plainly not competent, or where the appeal is
frivolous, vexatious or an abuse of the process of the court: at    [46].


11 The CoA held that where a party can show that the other party has been
and continues to be in contumelious breach of a court order, it would be
reasonable and logical for the court, especially when the latter party has
already been held to be in contempt of court for breaching the said court
order, to find that such conduct evidences a lack of genuine or    bona fide interest on the part of that party in obtaining the
reliefs it is seeking from instituting legal proceedings, and that the
legal proceedings were brought for an ulterior or collateral purpose in
abuse of the court’s process: at [51].


12 In determining whether the party in breach has complied with the court
order concerned, the court will scrutinise the language and the spirit of
the court order. Where there is purported compliance by way of acts that do
not comport with what the court order was intended to achieve in the first
place, such acts would not suffice and the party in breach would continue
to be in contumelious breach of the court order. The result of such
continued legal recalcitrance would almost invariably be severe: at    [2] and [52].


13 In the present case, the appellant’s disposal of its shares in Shanghai
Suntech in breach of the Mareva injunction and its failure to comply with
its disclosure obligations thereunder were critical to the CoA’s finding
that the appellant was and continued to be in contumelious breach of the
Mareva injunction: at [53].


14 With regard to the disposal of the appellant’s shares in Shanghai
Suntech, the CoA held that where assets had been dissipated in breach of a
Mareva injunction, the party in breach must account for that disposal and
must restore those assets or their equivalent in value back to its asset
pool in order to comply with the said injunction. On a similar but related
note, where the party in breach had been found to be in contempt of court
for breaching an order of court (ie, the Mareva injunction in this
case) and had been punished for it, that party must still comply with the
underlying court order that gave rise to the contempt proceedings in the
first place. In other words, in this case, the punishment for contempt of
court meted out on the appellant for breaching the Mareva injunction did
not absolve it from its obligation to comply with the said injunction by
restoring the value of its shares in Shanghai Suntech to its asset pool
(indeed, such restoration was all the more critical as the appellant’s
shares in Shanghai Suntech were the subject matter of the Share Price claim
brought by the respondent in the Suit). Put simply, one must distinguish
the obligations to be complied with under a court order from the sanctions
and punishments that are imposed when such obligations are not complied
with. Both the obligations on the one hand and the corresponding sanctions
and punishments on the other are related but distinct. The sanctions and
punishments therefore do not in any way absolve the contemnor from
complying with the underlying court order that gave rise to the contempt
proceedings in the first place: at [62]-    [66].


15 On the facts, the CoA found that the appellant’s explanation for the
disposal of its shares in Shanghai Suntech in September 2018 for a mere
RMB2 - namely, that Shanghai Suntech had been in financial distress since
2014 and had to be urgently sold to new owners who could inject fresh
capital into the company - was not supported by any credible evidence. The
appellant also made no attempts to comply with the Mareva injunction by
restoring the value of its shares in Shanghai Suntech to its asset pool
even though the appellant or its ultimate controller had the ability to do
so and to thereby undo the breach of the Mareva injunction. The appellant’s
contention that Shanghai Suntech and, in turn, its shares in Shanghai
Suntech had little or no net value was without basis since it was not
supported by any formal valuation of Shanghai Suntech and of the
appellant’s shares therein: at [58]-[59]
and [67]-[74].


16 With regard to the appellant’s failure to comply with its disclosure
obligations under the Mareva injunction, the CoA found that the appellant
provided no credible explanation as to why it did not file its disclosure
of assets affidavit despite numerous reminders by the respondent for it to
do so. The CoA also found that the disclosure of assets made in the
appellant’s affidavit filed in the course of SUM 58 was inadequate as that
affidavit did not provide any up-to-date financial information on the
appellant’s subsidiaries. On this, the CoA further found that the appellant
had provided no credible explanation as to why it was unable to obtain the
information necessary to comply with its disclosure obligations: at    [79]-[92].


17 For the foregoing reasons, the CoA found that the appellant was in
contumelious breach of the Mareva injunction and had no intention of
complying with the said injunction in relation to both its disposal of its
shares in Shanghai Suntech and its disclosure obligations. This was
sufficient to show that the appellant had brought CA 109/2018 for reasons
other than to seek the court’s relief. CA 109/2018 was therefore an abuse
of the court’s process and should be struck out. Nonetheless, in the
interests of justice and fairness, the CoA ordered that unless the
appellant paid into court the value of its shares in Shanghai Suntech,
which the CoA took to be US$55.56m, by 7 August 2019, CA 109/2018 would be
struck out as an abuse of the process of the court: at    [95]-[98]. [By way of a Postscript, as
the appellant did not do so by 7 August 2019, its appeal was automatically
struck out as an abuse of the process of the court.]



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


 
