

 


SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


3 October 2018


Case summary


Mui Jia Jun v Public Prosecutor
[2018] SGCA 59


Criminal Appeal No 17 of 2017



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon):



Outcome:

CoA orders retrial to afford accused a full opportunity to meet the
Prosecution’s case against him on appeal, which the Prosecution had not
clearly articulated at the trial.



Pertinent and significant points of the judgment


· In joint trials, trial courts must exercise great care in making findings
in favour of one accused person which may implicitly amount to findings in
favour of the Prosecution where its case against the other accused
person(s) is concerned (at [70]).


· In the context of a criminal trial, a trial court should generally not
make a finding that resolves against the accused what would otherwise
amount to a vital weakness in the Prosecution’s case when the Prosecution
itself has not sought to address that weakness by leading evidence and
making submissions to support such a finding (at [72]).


· In cases where the Prosecution advances a composite case comprising
several facets and it would not be reasonably clear to the accused, absent
an express statement to this effect, that the Prosecution is seeking a
conviction based on any individual facet of its case, it may be prudent for
the Prosecution to make this explicit. The Prosecution may do so either in
the charge or in its opening address at the trial, or by any other written
means (at [95]).


Background to the appeal


1 This was an appeal by Mui Jia Jun (“the Appellant”) against his
conviction on two counts of trafficking in controlled drugs in furtherance
of a common intention.


The material facts


2 On 21 February 2014, the Appellant’s co-accused (“Tan”) was arrested by
officers from the Central Narcotics Bureau (“the CNB”) after he had
delivered three bundles of drugs to a third party. Seven other bundles of
drugs were found in his possession. Each of these ten bundles of drugs
(“the Ten Bundles”) had been covered with cling wrap, with several layers
of black tape applied over the whole of the cling wrap. 


3 Several weeks later, the Appellant was arrested by officers from the CNB
after follow-up investigations subsequent to a separate arrest. 


4 The Appellant was tried with Tan in the High Court on two counts of
trafficking in controlled drugs in furtherance of their common intention.
The Prosecution’s case against the Appellant comprised a single narrative
with two intertwined facets. The first was that on the morning of Tan’s
arrest, the Appellant had handed Tan a “Jorano” bag (“the Jorano bag of
drugs”) with the Ten Bundles already inside and pre-packed. On this
narrative, Tan had not previously packed any of the Ten Bundles before
receiving them from the Appellant, and had handled these bundles only to
the extent of separating them for their intended recipients. The second
facet was that the Appellant had allegedly sent Tan text messages which
contained instructions regarding the delivery of the drugs (“the Delivery
Messages”). 


5 Critically, at the trial, the Prosecution did not advance the two
individual facets of its case as independent bases for convicting the
Appellant. More specifically, the Prosecution did not advance the case that
even if the Appellant had not given Tan the Jorano bag of drugs, he should
be convicted on the sole basis that he had sent Tan the Delivery Messages
(“the Alternative Case”). 


6 The trial judge (“the Judge”) convicted both Tan and the Appellant of the
charges against them. The Appellant then appealed against his conviction
and sentence.


7 After the first hearing of the appeal on 30 November 2017, the
Prosecution, in response to queries raised by the Court of Appeal, accepted
in its further submissions that there was a reasonable doubt as to whether
the Appellant had given Tan the Jorano bag of drugs, the first facet of its
case at the trial.


The decision on appeal


8 The Court of Appeal allowed the appeal to the extent that it ordered the
matter to be retried before another High Court judge, where the Prosecution
would be confined to mounting its case against the Appellant on the basis
that he had sent Tan the Delivery Messages (at [94] and    [97]).


9 In coming to its decision, the Court of Appeal first held that, as the
Prosecution had rightly, albeit belatedly, conceded, there was a reasonable
doubt as to whether the Appellant had given Tan the Jorano bag of drugs (at    [79]). It noted that Tan’s DNA was found on the adhesive
side of the tape (“Area 3”) on five of the Ten Bundles (at    [60]). In the absence of some reasonable explanation for
this, the only plausible reason was that contrary to Tan’s evidence that he
had not been involved in preparing or packing any of the Ten Bundles, he
had actually been involved in this regard (at [61]). The
presence of Tan’s DNA on Area 3 on five of the Ten Bundles therefore
created a reasonable doubt over his account that on the morning of his
arrest, the Appellant had given him the Jorano bag of drugs with the Ten
Bundles already inside and pre-packed (at [63]).


10 The Judge had reasoned that Tan might have left his DNA on the adhesive
side of edges of tape sticking out of the ends of two of the five aforesaid
bundles when he was handling those two bundles for delivery. This reasoning
was flawed for two reasons. First, there was simply no adequate evidential
basis for it. Although the Judge justified his analysis on the basis that
he was giving Tan the benefit of the doubt, his approach in fact implicitly
gave the benefit of that doubt to the Prosecution for the purposes of its
case against the Appellant, which could not be accepted (at    [67]). Second, during the trial, the Prosecution did not
seek to advance any explanation as to why Tan’s DNA was found on Area 3 on
five of the Ten Bundles. The Judge was not entitled to fill in this
significant lacuna in the Prosecution’s case even assuming he had some
evidentiary basis to do so (at [71]). In the context of a
criminal trial, a trial court should generally not make a finding that
resolved against the accused what would otherwise amount to a vital
weakness in the Prosecution’s case when the Prosecution itself had not
sought to address that weakness by leading evidence and making submissions
to support such a finding (at [72]). This conclusion
followed from the requirement that the Prosecution must prove the guilt of
the accused beyond reasonable doubt (at [73]). Further,
fairness to the accused demanded that he should have the opportunity to
address every vital aspect of the factual basis on which he was convicted.
Adopting a case theory that the accused did not have the chance to rebut
would be fundamentally unfair to him (at [77]).


11 The Court of Appeal then held that it would not proceed to assess
whether, on the evidence before the court, the Prosecution had proved
beyond reasonable doubt that the Appellant had sent Tan the Delivery
Messages (at [81]). In seeking to uphold the Appellant’s
conviction on this basis, the Prosecution was relying on the Alternative
Case. However, the Prosecution had not clearly advanced that case at the
trial, and the evidence might have emerged differently if the Prosecution
had done so (at [87]–[88]). It was a fundamental principle
of our criminal law that an accused person should know with certainty, and
thus be prepared to meet, the Prosecution’s case against him. It would
violate that principle if a court were to consider a basis for convicting
an accused that he was not aware of and thus was not ready to meet at his
trial, in circumstances where knowledge of that basis for conviction might
have affected the evidence at the trial (at [89]).


12 In the circumstances, the appropriate order in respect of the appeal was
a retrial of the matter before another High Court judge, where the
Prosecution would be confined to mounting its case against the Appellant on
the basis that he had sent Tan the Delivery Messages (at    [94] and [97]).


13 In closing, the Court of Appeal pointed out that in cases such as the
present where the Prosecution advanced a composite case comprising several
facets and it would not be reasonably clear to the accused, absent an
express statement to this effect, that the Prosecution was seeking a
conviction based on any individual facet of its case, it might be prudent
for the Prosecution to make this explicit. The Prosecution could do so
either in the charge or in its opening address at the trial, or by any
other written means (at [95]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.
 
