

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


29 August 2018


Case Summary




The Wellness Group Pte Ltd v Paris Investment Pte Ltd and others



[2018] SGCA 47



Civil Appeal No 142 of 2017 and Court of Appeal Summons No 14 of 2018



___________________________________________________________________


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Judge of Appeal Steven
Chong):



Outcome: CoA orders that minority shareholder’s nominee be appointed as a
director of the company, pursuant to an implied term in a shareholders’
agreement, absent any evidence that the nominee was obviously unfit for
office or that his appointment would be obviously injurious to the company.


1 This appeal concerned the legal effect of an implied term in a
shareholders’ agreement entitling a minority shareholder to appoint a
director to the board of a company, where the company’s constitution
conferred the power to appoint directors on the board of the company.


Background to the appeal


2 The appellant (“Wellness”) and the first and second respondents were
shareholders in the third respondent (“TWG”). All four companies had signed
a shareholders’ agreement, which contained an implied term that the
majority shareholder(s) of TWG would be entitled to appoint two directors
to the Board of Directors of TWG, and the minority shareholder(s) would be
entitled to appoint one director so long as they held at least 25% of the
shares in TWG (“the Implied Term”).


3 Wellness owned 30.1% of the shares in TWG. It sought to appoint Associate
Professor Mak Yuen Teen (“Prof Mak”) as a director of TWG pursuant to the
Implied Term. Wellness also requested (a) that the Board of TWG authorise
Prof Mak to disclose to Wellness information in relation to TWG which he
would have access to in his capacity as director; and (b) that TWG arrange
for Prof Mak to be covered by director and officer insurance to the same
extent as TWG’s other directors; and if no such insurance had been
purchased for the directors, that it be purchased. These two matters will
be referred to as “the Ancillary Matters”.


4 TWG refused to appoint Prof Mak as a director on the basis that it found
the Ancillary Matters unacceptable. Wellness then filed an originating
summons seeking, amongst others, orders that Prof Mak be appointed a
director of TWG and that the respondents execute the necessary documents to
give effect to his appointment. Shortly before the originating summons was
heard, Wellness filed submissions stating that the Ancillary Matters were
mere requests rather than conditions which Wellness sought to attach to
Prof Mak’s appointment. The High Court found that this constituted a change
in Wellness’ position and dismissed the originating summons in order to
give the respondents an opportunity to reconsider Prof Mak’s appointment
afresh without the Ancillary Matters attached.


The Court’s decision 


5 The Court of Appeal held that (1) the Implied Term gave Wellness the
right to have its nominee appointed as a director of TWG; (2) the
respondents had breached the Implied Term by refusing to appoint Prof Mak
as a director of TWG; and (3) specific performance was available as a
remedy for such breach.


6 First, the Implied Term gave Wellness a right to nominate one person to
be a director of TWG, with a corresponding obligation on the part of the
Board of TWG to appoint that nominee as a director, subject to two
important caveats. First, the nomination of a person who was statutorily
disqualified under the Companies Act (Cap 50, 2006 Rev Ed) from assuming
directorship, or who did not consent to act as a director, would be
defective. There would clearly be no obligation to appoint such a person.
Secondly, the Board of TWG would not be obliged to appoint the nominee if
it was able to establish that the nominee would be obviously unfit for
office or that his appointment would be obviously injurious to the company:
at [33], [55] and [62].


7 The burden was not on Wellness to prove the suitability of its nominee,
but on the Board to prove his unsuitability. It would not suffice for the
Board to simply assert that the nominee lacked relevant experience or
skills. Rather, the Board had to adduce clear evidence of the shortcomings
of the nomination, such as if the nominee would be placed in a position of
a conflict of interest or a breach of fiduciary duty. This might be the
case if, for example, the nominee operated a business in competition with
the company: at [33].


8 However, the Implied Term did not mean that Prof Mak became a director
automatically upon being nominated by Wellness. This would give rise to
practical problems. Moreover, the concept of de facto directorship
was typically invoked to impose directors’ duties and liabilities on
someone who, although not officially a director, held himself out as one
and performed the functions of a director. It did not refer to a
transitional category of persons who were legally recognised as directors
notwithstanding that they had not yet been formally appointed: at    [41] and [43].


9 The power of appointing directors remained with the Board pursuant to
TWG’s Constitution, though it must now be exercised in accordance with the
shareholders’ wishes pursuant to the Implied Term. The Board’s limited
discretion not to appoint a nominee if he was obviously unfit for office or
injurious to the company struck a balance between the shareholders’ liberty
to appoint as directors the persons whom they wished to represent them on
the Board, and the Board’s interest in appointing persons suitably
qualified to manage and supervise the company. The Board’s exercise of its
power of appointment within these limits would enable it to fulfil its
fiduciary duty to TWG without denuding the Implied Term of effect: at    [64], [66] and [67].


10 Secondly, the respondents had breached the Implied Term by refusing to
appoint Prof Mak. Besides the rejection of the Ancillary Matters, TWG had
not given any legitimate reason to refuse Prof Mak’s appointment. The
respondents were not entitled to indefinitely delay Prof Mak’s appointment
by placing the onus on Wellness to justify his candidature: at    [83].


11 Finally, the Implied Term could in principle be enforced through an
order for specific performance. An award of damages would be an inadequate
and illusory remedy for Wellness’ loss of representation on the Board.
Moreover, the authorities cited by the respondents did not establish that
the court would not order specific performance of an obligation to appoint
a director on the basis that it was a contract for services: at    [85] and [86].


12 The Court therefore ordered that Prof Mak be appointed a director of TWG
and that the respondents, their directors and/or officers execute or
procure the execution of the documents necessary to give effect to his
appointment: at [92].


 



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


