




SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


28 August 2018


Case summary



Cicada Cube Pte Ltd v National University Hospital (Singapore) Pte Ltd

Civil Appeal Nos 138 and 139 of 2016



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Justice of Appeal Tay
Yong Kwang):



Outcome: CoA dismisses appeals and clarifies the principles and procedures
applicable to determinations of patent entitlement.


Background to the appeal


1 These are cross-appeals relating to the ownership of a patent (“the
Patent”). The Patent relates to a system which allows patient specimens to
be ordered and collected in an automated manner for laboratory testing,
thereby reducing human error. Both parties, namely Cicada Cube Pte Ltd
(“Cicada”) and National University Hospital (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“NUH”),
worked together to develop this system. Cicada applied for and was granted
the Patent in 2010. NUH challenged Cicada’s entitlement to the Patent
through a reference (“the Reference”) to the Registrar of Patents (“the
Registrar”) and subsequently to the High Court under s 47 of the Patents
Act (Cap 221, 2005 Rev Ed) (“the Act”).


2 The High Court found that both parties contributed to the invention and
were entitled jointly to the Patent. Both parties appealed to the Court of
Appeal contending that only their respective employees were responsible for
the heart of the invention in the Patent, thereby entitling them to sole
ownership of the Patent. The Court of Appeal dismissed both appeals.


Facts


3 Cicada is a software engineering company and the registered proprietor of
the Patent. NUH is a company that operates a hospital. The invention in the
Patent was developed as part of NUH’s project to digitise the clinical care
processes in its hospitals. In particular, NUH wanted to develop a software
to electronically process and store the data required for patient sample
collection. It appointed Cicada to develop the software for this purpose.
The software was called the Advanced Test Ordering Management System
(“ATOMS”). From end-2004 to 2005, Dr Danny Poo Chiang Choon (“Dr Poo”) and
Dr Anil Kumar Ratty (“Dr Ratty”) from Cicada and Dr Sunil Kumar Sethi (“Dr
Sethi”) from NUH worked on this project and published various articles on
it.


4 Cicada applied for and was granted the Patent in 2010. The Patent is
titled “Laboratory Specimen Collection Management System” and describes a
system for automation of the specimen ordering and collection process, from
the point of physician-patient contact until specimen delivery to the
laboratory. After the Patent was granted to Cicada, NUH challenged Cicada’s
entitlement to the Patent before the Registrar, three days before the
expiry of two years from the date of grant for the Patent. The Registrar
ultimately declined to determine the Reference. NUH then applied to the
High Court for the determination of entitlement to the Patent. The High
Court held that Dr Poo, Dr Ratty and Dr Sethi jointly invented the Patent
and therefore Cicada and NUH were jointly entitled to the Patent. Both
parties appealed against the High Court’s decision.


Decision on appeal


Procedure


5 As the application to the High Court was made more than two years after
the date of grant of the Patent, the Court of Appeal had to determine
whether NUH was subject to the conditional time limit in s 47(9) of the
Act. Section 47(9) of the Act provides that the court shall not in the
exercise of “any such declaratory jurisdiction” determine patent
entitlement if proceedings in which the jurisdiction is invoked were
commenced more than two years after the date of grant of the patent, unless
the applicant can show that the registered proprietor of the patent knew at
the time of grant that he was not entitled to the Patent. Cicada argued
that NUH was caught by this conditional time limit, whereas NUH contended
that it was not.


6 The Court of Appeal held that NUH was caught by the conditional time
limit as it had commenced the High Court proceedings more than two years
after the date of grant of the Patent. It held that the High Court and the
Registrar had concurrent jurisdiction to determine patent entitlement,
meaning that parties could apply to either forum to determine this
question. If they applied to the High Court after two years from the date
of grant of the Patent, the High Court could not determine the question
unless it was shown that the proprietor knew that he was not entitled to
the Patent at date of grant or date of transfer. The same would apply even
if the parties had applied to the Registrar first (within the two-year
period) and the Registrar declined to determine the question. Therefore, if
a party chose to apply to the Registrar first and the Registrar had not
made a determination by the two-year mark, it would be prudent for the
party to withdraw the reference and commence proceedings in the High Court    ([44]–[47]).


7 As NUH had applied to the High Court after the two-year period, it had to
show that Cicada knew at the date of grant that it was not solely entitled
to the Patent. On the facts, Dr Sethi, Dr Ratty and Dr Poo worked closely
together on the invention in the Patent. They also worked jointly on
academic papers describing the invention. From this, the Court of Appeal
inferred that Cicada knew that it was not solely entitled to the Patent. It
was hence empowered to determine the question of patent entitlement    ([55]–[60]).


Substantive determination


8 The Court of Appeal held that the substantive question of entitlement was
a two-part inquiry as to the inventive concepts in the Patent, and the
inventors and owners of the Patent. In identifying the inventive concepts,
the court could look at both the specifications and the claims in the
Patent. It was also possible for a Patent to encapsulate more than one
inventive concept. The Court of Appeal identified two such concepts,
namely:


a. the automatic determination and relaying of specimen requirements to the
specimen collection system by a specimen processing system that connects
the specimen test ordering system to the specimen collection system; and


b. the automatic and centralised retrieval by the specimen processing
system of all information required to be printed on a label for the use of
both the specimen taker and the laboratory analyser and the relaying of
such information by the specimen processing system to the specimen
collection system for printing on a single label    ([63]–[75], [83]).


9 On the identity of the inventors, the Court of Appeal found that Dr
Sethi, Dr Ratty and Dr Poo were the inventors as they had jointly
formulated the inventive concepts. Dr Sethi had materially contributed to
the various proposals and papers detailing the invention in the Patent, and
Dr Ratty and Dr Poo had contributed their software expertise in an
invention that required combined input from the healthcare and software
sectors ([86]–[96]).


10 Given that Dr Sethi, Dr Ratty and Dr Poo were the joint inventors,
Cicada and NUH were jointly entitled to ownership of the Patent    ([97]). The appeals were hence dismissed.



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


