

SUPREME COURT OF SINGAPORE


26 June 2018


Case Summary



BNX v BOE and another matter [2018] SGCA 29

Civil Appeals Nos 61 and 62 of 2017 (Summonses Nos 132 and 133 of 2017)



____________________________________________________________________
Decision of the Court of Appeal (delivered by Chief Justice Sundaresh
Menon)
 

The Court of Appeal dismisses applications to admit further evidence on
appeal that the applicant claimed went towards showing that the respondent
had prevailed in earlier arbitration proceedings by committing fraud and
perjury.


Background to the applications


1 Court of Appeal Summonses Nos 132 and 133 of 2017 (“SUM 132” and “SUM
133” respectively) were applications brought by BNX to adduce further
evidence in Civil Appeals Nos 61 and 62 of 2017 (“CA 61” and “CA 62”
respectively), which were appeals brought against the decision of the High
Court judge (“the Judge”) in BNX v BOE and another matter [2017]
SGHC 289 to: (a) dismiss an application brought by BNX in Originating
Summons No 871 of 2016 (“OS 871”) to set aside an award rendered in favour
of BOE in domestic arbitration proceedings commenced by BNX against BOE
(“the Award”); and (b) grant an application by BOE in Summons No 5305 of
2016 (“SUM 5305”) to strike out Suit No 1097 of 2016 (“Suit 1097”), which
was a suit commenced by BNX against BOE.


2 The evidence that BNX sought to introduce on appeal comprised: (a)
correspondence in May 2013 between BOE, the architectural firm hired by BOE
(referred to as “[A]”), and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (“the URA”),
which BNX alleged that BOE had wrongfully withheld during the arbitration
proceedings (“the May 2013 Documents”); and (b) the pleadings and some
correspondence from a suit commenced by BNX against [A] (ie, Suit
No 585 of 2017 (“Suit 585”)), which BNX claimed would show that BOE’s
witnesses had given false evidence in the arbitration proceedings (“the
Suit 585 Documents”). BNX also sought, by SUM 132 and SUM 133, leave to
adduce affidavits from the individuals whom BNX alleged were involved in
withholding the correspondence and leave for both parties to cross-examine
those individuals.


The material facts


3 The dispute stemmed from an agreement for BOE to sell a hotel in
Singapore to BNX in 2013. The hotel was located on a plot of land (“the
Development”) that was subject to gross floor area (“GFA”) requirements
issued by the URA, which entailed certain predetermined percentages of the
GFA being allocated as either for hotel use or office space. Facilities
that did not fall within the core understanding of hotel use could be
deemed to be for hotel use only if they were for the sole and exclusive use
of guests and staff of the hotel.


4 During the construction of the Development from 2010 to 2013, the URA
periodically issued grants of written permission (“GWP”) that set out those
use restrictions. BOE engaged [A] as its project architect to discuss with
the URA as to how BOE should ensure that the Development fell within those
use restrictions. On URA’s request, BOE gave the URA written undertakings
in October 2010, March 2013 and May 2013 regarding the restriction of
certain facilities within the Development (“the Relevant Facilities”) for
the exclusive use of hotel guests and staff (respectively, “the October
2010 Undertaking”, “the March 2013 Undertaking” and “the May 2013
Undertaking”).


5 Prior to the sale of the Development, BOE arranged for BNX to have access
to all relevant materials in order for BNX to undertake the necessary due
diligence review. BOE established a “virtual data room”, which contained
soft copies of all the relevant key documents, and a “physical data room”,
which was a room containing all the drawings and correspondence relating to
the Development. The October 2010 Undertaking and the March 2013
Undertaking could be found in only the physical data room, while the May
2013 Undertaking was included in neither the physical nor the virtual data
room. Although BNX’s solicitors and consultants drew BNX’s attention to
potential issues regarding the GFA requirements for the Development, BNX
did not follow up on that advice.


6 The sale was completed in December 2013. BNX and BOE entered into a lease
agreement in February 2014 in order to effect the sale of the Development.
In July 2014, BNX first became aware of the use restrictions. BNX accused
BOE of wrongfully failing to disclose the use restrictions during their
negotiations. BOE denied the accusations.


7 BNX commenced domestic arbitration proceedings against BOE in October
2014, alleging that BOE had fraudulently misrepresented that there were no
use restrictions over the Relevant Facilities, such that BOE was liable
for, amongst other things, fraudulent misrepresentation and breach of
contract. During document production, BOE offered to disclose all hard copy
correspondence in its possession between [A] and the URA pertaining to the
use restrictions, including the October 2010 Undertaking and the March 2013
Undertaking (but not the May 2013 Undertaking). In the Award issued by the
arbitral tribunal, all of BNX’s claims were dismissed.


8 In August 2016, BNX commenced OS 871, seeking to set aside the Award
pursuant to s 48 of the Arbitration Act (Cap 10, 2002 Rev Ed). The Judge
dismissed OS 871 in March 2017, and CA 61 was an appeal against this. In
October 2016, BNX commenced Suit 1097, seeking to rescind the lease
agreement that BOE had granted BNX. In November 2016, BOE filed SUM 5305 to
strike out Suit 1097. The Judge struck out BNX’s claims in Suit 1097 in
March 2017, and CA 62 was an appeal against this. In June 2017, BNX
commenced Suit 585 against [A], claiming that [A], as BOE’s architect, had
breached its duty of care to BNX, a buyer of the Development, to advise BOE
with reasonable care and skill. [A] made references to the May 2013
Documents in its defence filed in Suit 585. In November 2017, BNX brought
the applications in SUM 132 and SUM 133, seeking to adduce further evidence
in support of its appeals in CA 61 and CA 62.


The court’s decision


9 The Court of Appeal dismissed the applications in SUM 132 and SUM 133 to
adduce further evidence on appeal in CA 61 and CA 62. (    [61], [107])


10 The May 2013 Documents should not be adduced as further evidence on
appeal for two main reasons. First, BNX, having obtained the May 2013
Documents in the course of discovery in Suit 585, was subject to an implied
undertaking not to use them for any purpose other than the determination of
Suit 585 (“the Riddick principle”). The Riddick principle
applied because the Suit 585 Documents had not been disclosed by BOE
voluntarily. It was incumbent on BNX to first apply to the court presiding
over Suit 585 to be released from its implied undertaking, but it did not
do so. ([63]–[71])


11 Second, BNX failed to show that “special grounds” existed to admit the
May 2013 Documents as further evidence on appeal, as required under s 37(4)
of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act (Cap 322, 2007 Rev Ed) (“the SCJA”)
and O 57 r 13(2) of the Rules of Court (Cap 322, R 5, 2014 Rev Ed) (“the
ROC”). BNX had to satisfy the three cumulative conditions laid down in    Ladd v Marshall [1954] 1 WLR 1489 (“Ladd v Marshall”),
which are that (a) the evidence could not have been obtained with
reasonable diligence for use in the lower court (non-availability); (b) the
evidence would probably have an important influence on the result of the
case, although it need not be decisive (relevance and materiality); and (c)
the evidence must be apparently credible, although it need not be
incontrovertible (credibility or reliability).(    [1], [73], [74])


12 The first Ladd v Marshall requirement (ie,
non-availability) was not met because the May 2013 Documents could have
been obtained with reasonable diligence for use during the arbitration and
the post-award proceedings. BNX failed to take the necessary steps to seek
direct evidence from [A] during the arbitration. Also, the first    Ladd v Marshall requirement could not be relaxed or waived because
the BNX had not shown that BOE had perpetrated a fraud by deliberately
withholding the May 2013 Documents, much less fraud that struck at the very
root of the proceedings. Further, BNX had not acted diligently during the
due diligence process preceding the sale of the Development, and thereby
failed to properly inform itself of the relevant use restrictions even
though it had the means to. In any event, the second    Ladd v Marshall requirement (ie, relevance and
materiality) was also not met. The May 2013 Documents would not have had a
material impact on the Tribunal’s findings in the Award or those of the
Judge in the proceedings below. (    [76], [77], [82], [86]–[88], [91])


13 When a court is faced with an application to adduce further evidence of
matters that occurred after the trial or hearing that resulted in the
decision of the court below that is being appealed, the court’s principal
concern in deciding whether the further evidence would have a perceptible
impact on the decision (and hence should be admitted) is with securing the
interests of justice. Hence, the balance should be struck in favour of
admitting such evidence as long as the court does the following: (a) first,
ascertain what the relevant matters are, of which evidence is sought to be
given, and ensure that these are matters that occurred after the trial or
hearing below; (b) second, satisfy itself that the evidence of these
matters is at least potentially material to the issues in the appeal; and
(c) third, satisfy itself that the material at least appears to be
credible. The court must thereafter also assess the weight to be placed on
any such evidence as is admitted. ([97], [99], [100]).


14 The Suit 585 Documents should not be adduced as further evidence on
appeal. Although the Suit 585 Documents were all further material that came
into existence after the date of the Judge’s decisions which are being
appealed, they did not concern matters that have occurred after the date of
the decision below. In any event, the matters to which the Suit 585
Documents purported to relate were also not even remotely relevant or
material to the issues that are before the court. (    [101]–[104])


15 BNX’s applications to admit the affidavits of BOE’s representatives and
solicitors, [A]’s representative and BNX’s own representative, and for both
parties to be given leave to cross-examine those individuals, fall away in
the light of the court’s rejection of BNX’s application to admit the May
2013 Documents and the Suit 585 Documents as further evidence on appeal.
They are thus also dismissed ([105], [106]).



This summary is provided to assist in the understanding of the Court’s
grounds of decision. It is not intended to be a substitute for the
reasons of the Court. All numbers in bold font and square brackets
refer to the corresponding paragraph numbers in the Court’s grounds of
decision.


